<top>

<num> 001 </num>

<title> Topic: Antitrust Cases Pending


<desc> Description:

Document discusses a pending antitrust case.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will discuss a pending antitrust case and
will identify the alleged violation as well as the government entity
investigating the case.  Identification of the industry and the
companies involved is optional.  The antitrust investigation must be a
result of a complaint, NOT as part of a routine review.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  antitrust suit, antitrust objections, antitrust investigation,
antitrust dispute

2.  monopoly, bid-rigging, illegal restraint of trade, insider
trading, price-fixing

3.  acquisition, merger, takeover, buyout

4.  Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Interstate Commerce Commission
(ICC), Justice Department, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC), Japanese Fair Trade Commission

5.  NOT antitrust immunity
   

<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Antitrust - Laws to protect trade and commerce from unlawful
restraints and monopolies or unfair business practices.

Acquisition - The taking over by one company of a controlling interest
in another, also called a takeover.  The action may be friendly or
unfriendly.

Merger - The acquisition by one corporation of the stock of another.
The acquiring corporation then retires the other's stock and dissolves
that corporation.  Therefore, only one corporation retains its
identity in a merger.

</top>

<top>

<num> 002 </num>

<title> Topic: Acquisitions


<desc> Description:

Document discusses a currently proposed acquisition involving a U.S.
company and a foreign company.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must discuss a currently proposed
acquisition (which may or may not be identified by type, e.g., merger,
buyout, leveraged buyout, hostile takeover, friendly acquisition).
The suitor and target must be identified by name; the nationality of
one of the companies must be identified as U.S. and the nationality of
the other company must be identified as NOT U.S.

<con> Concept(s):

1.  acquisition, takeover

2.  suitor, target

3.  merger, buyout, leveraged buyout (LBO)

4.  arb, arbitrage, arbitrager, leverage, offer, bid, tender, purchase

5.  anti-takover, poison pill, white knight, restructure, sale of
assets, recapitalization


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<nat> Nationality: NOT U.S.

<time> Time: Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Acquisition - The taking over by one company of a controlling interest
in another, also called a takeover.  The action may be friendly or
unfriendly.  The company initiating the takeover is the suitor.  The
company which is taken over is the target.

Arbitrage - A form of speculation in which the purchase of an asset in
one market is accompanied by a simultaneous sale of the same (or a
similar) asset in a different market, to take advantage of a
difference in price.  Arbitragers or arbs buy a company's shares at
today's price expecting them to be bid for tomorrow at a higher price
in a takeover bid.  When they do this knowing that a bid is coming,
they are indulging in insider trading.

Hostile Takeover - An acquisition in which the suitor company plans to
replace management or liquidate assets, etc. of the target company.
The target company may institute some countermeasure, called a poison
pill.  An investor or group which tries to assist the target company
is a white knight.

Leveraged Buyout (LBO) - Takeover of a company using borrowed funds,
with the target company's assets serving as security for the loans
taken out by the acquiring firm.  The acquiring firm repays the loans
out of the cash flow of the acquired company or from the sale of the
assets of the acquired company.

Merger - The acquisition by one corporation of the stock of another.
The acquiring corporation then retires the other's stock and dissolves
that corporation.  Therefore, only one corporation retains its
identity in a merger.

Tender Offer - An offer to buy shares of a corporation, usually at a
premium above the shares' market price, for cash, securities, or both,
often with the objective of taking control of the target company.

</top>



<top>

<num> 003 </num>

<title> Topic: Joint Ventures


<desc> Description:

Document will announce a new joint venture involving a Japanese
company.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will announce a new joint venture and will
identify the partners (one of which must be Japanese) by name, as well
as the name and activity of the new company.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  joint venture, tie up

2.  partner, cooperation, joint management, agreement

3.  cooperate, work together, jointly manage, jointly own, jointly
produce


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan

<time> Time: Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Joint Venture - An international business undertaking defined as the
commitment, for more than a very short duration, of funds, facilities,
and services by two or more legally separate interests to an
enterprise for their mutual benefit.

</top>



<top>

<num> 004 </num>

<title> Topic: Debt Rescheduling


<desc> Description: Document will discuss a current debt rescheduling
agreement between a developing country and one or more of its
creditor(s).


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss a current debt rescheduling agreement
reached, proposed, or being negotiated between a debtor developing
country and one or more of its creditors, commercial and/or official.
It will identify the debtor country and the creditor(s), the repayment
time period requested or granted, the monetary amount requested or
covered by the accord, and the interest rate, proposed or set.


<con> Concept(s):

1. rescheduling agreement, accord, settlement, pact

2. bank debt, commercial debt, foreign debt, trade debt, medium-term
debt, long-term debt

3. negotiations, debt talks

4. creditor banks, creditor countries/governments, Paris Club

5. debtor countries, developing countries

6. debt package

7. debt repayments

8. restructuring, rescheduling existing loans

9. lower interest-rate margin, easier terms, more lenient terms


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Developing country

<time> Time: Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Debt Rescheduling - Agreement between creditors and debtor to provide
debt relief by altering the original payment terms of an existing
debt.  This is most often accomplished by lengthening the original
schedule for principal and interest payments, and deferring interest
payments.  Done most publicly by developing countries and their
bankers, but often less publicly by other willing creditors and
debtors, e.g., governments, banks and companies.  Much in vogue in the
early 1980s, the road to rescheduling for countries in crisis runs as
follows: when a country borrows so much that its lenders grow nervous,
the banks start lending for shorter and shorter maturities.
Eventually the country, though still paying interest on its debt, is
unable to make payments on the principal.  The country is then forced
to request a rescheduling, which means that it is able to escape its
immediate repayment commitments by converting short-term loans into
longer-term ones.  A country wishing to reschedule its official debt
tal

</top>



<top>

<num> 005 </num>

<title> Topic: Dumping Charges


<desc> Description:

The U.S. or the EC charges Japan with dumping a product on any market
and/or takes action against Japan for proven or suspected dumping.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must discuss current charges made by the
U.S. or the EC against Japan for dumping a product on the U.S., EC, or
any third-country market, and/or action(s) taken by the U.S. or the EC
against Japan for proven or suspected dumping.  The product must be
identified.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  dumping

2.  duties, tariffs, anti-dumping measures, punitive trade sanctions,
protective penalties

3.  below market, unfair, predatory pricing

4.  Commerce Department, International Trade Commission (ITC),
European Community (EC), Common Market

5.  ruling, charges, investigation


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<nat> Nationality: EC

<nat> Nationality: Japan

<time> Time: Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Dumping - A term used in international trade, meaning to sell a
product in export markets below the selling price for the same product
in domestic markets.  Rules created by countries to protect themselves
from this practice are called anti-dumping laws.  Additional tariffs
that may be imposed on imports that have been dumped are called
dumping duties.

</top>



<top>

<num> 006 </num>

<title> Topic: Third World Debt Relief


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss debt relief for a developing country.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss debt relief proposed or granted a
developing country, and will identify the type of relief, e.g., debt
forgiveness, debt reduction, new loans, refinancing loans, cash aid,
etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. debt burden

2. debt relief

3. developing country, LDC, debtor country

4. International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, Paris Club, creditor
bank, creditor country, creditor government

5. debt forgiveness, debt reduction, debt rescheduling, debt for
equity swap, interest rate change, new loan agreement, refinancing
loans, western aid, cash aid, trade-credit facility, money-market
deposit facility, exit bond


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Developing country

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Debt relief - The easing of a debtor country's burden of servicing its
external debt.  Relief can be obtained through new financing at
concessional rates, limitations on debt service levels, outright debt
reduction, or changing the original terms of loans including
rescheduling of principal repayments, retiming of interest payments,
and interest capitalization.

Debt reduction - The voluntary and negotiated reduction of a debtor
country's burden of servicing its external debt.  Debt reduction can
be obtained through negotiated changes in the terms and conditions of
the loan, to include debt rescheduling, retiming of interest payments,
and interest capitalization.  Debt reduction can also be obtained
through measures designed to reduce the level of international debt,
to include debt conversions, debt buybacks, and debt-equity swaps.

Debt buy-back - A secondary market debt relief mechanism whereby the
debtor buys back its own debt outright at the market's discounted
prices, thus providing the debtor country immediate debt relief.  Also
an arrangement under which a group of friendly countries donate cash
to set up a fund to buy a debtor country's claims.

Debt conversion - A form of debt relief that involves converting a
country's external debt into domestic debt or equity.  These
conversion schemes encourage foreign investment, provide a channel for
the return of flight capital, and reduce the foreign exchange costs of
servicing the country's external debt.

Debt-equity swap - The exchange of a debt instrument for an equity
investment.  The most frequently used secondary market debt relief
scheme whereby a commercial bank sells its debt at a discount to a
multinational corporation or other private investor who transfers it
to the debtor country for redemption at near or full face value in
local currency or government notes.  The investor then uses the
proceeds to buy equity shares in a local business in the debtor
country.  Alternatively, a creditor bank can swap a loan in its
portfolio for an equity instrument of its own, buying additional debt
on the secondary market, if necessary, to afford the desired
investment.

Debt forgiveness - A debt relief arrangement that reduces the present
value of contractual loan obligations of the debtor country.
Forgiveness schemes often are made mandatory by a creditor country and
apply to all creditors of the debtor.  Methods include forced
write-downs or write-offs of principal, cancellation of obligations to
pay interest, or proposals for an international facility designed to
purchase LDC debt at a mandated discount so that the savings can be
passed on to the debtor country.

</top>



<top>

<num> 007 </num>

<title> Topic: U.S. Budget Deficit


<desc> Description:

Document will mention a proposal to decrease the U.S. budget deficit.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite at least one way to reduce the U.S.
budget deficit, directly (e.g., raise taxes, cut costs) or indirectly
(e.g., modifying the exchange rate, encouraging domestic investment).
A document which only describes the status quo, but does not cite or
recommend a course of action, is NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  U.S. budget deficit, federal budget shortfall

2.  foreign affairs budget, defense budget, entitlements

3.  increased revenues, tax increase, tax reform, auction quota

4.  reduction in expenditures, spending cuts, cutting domestic
programs, eliminating government subsidies

5.  NOT financing the U.S. budget deficit


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Deficit - An excess of expenditures over budget.

</top>



<top>

<num> 008 </num>

<title> Topic: Economic Projections


<desc> Description:

Document will contain quantitative projections of the future value of
some economic indicator for countries other than the U.S.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must include a projection of the value of
an economic indicator (e.g., gross national product (GNP), stock
market, rate of inflation, balance of payments, currency exchange
rate, stock market value, per capita income, etc.) for the coming
year, for a country other than the United States.


<con> Concept(s):

1. inflation, stagflation, indicators, index

2. signs, projection, forecast, future

3. rise, shift, fall, growth, drop, expansion, slowdown, recovery

4. %, billions

5. Not U.S.


<fac> Factor(s):
 
<nat> Nationality: Not U.S.

<time> Time: Future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 009 </num>

<title> Topic: U.S. Congressional Positions on the SDI


<desc> Description:

Document will identify position(s) held by members of the U.S. Congress on 
paying for the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI, also known as "star wars").


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the position(s) taken by individual 
members of Congress on providing funds for development and potential 
deployment of the "star wars" anti-missile defense system.  Reported 
senatorial or congressional comments on the SDI outside the explicit budget 
arena which are suggestive of how they might vote, or have voted, are 
possibly useful in tracking voting records over the years.  However, actual 
votes on funding the SDI are to be regarded as the best indicator of a 
member's true position. Changes of vote, support of increased or decreased 
appropriations for SDI research, as well as changes of congressional 
membership over time, are also relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, star wars

2. U.S. Congress, Senate, Senator, House of Representatives, Congressman

3. defense budget, SDI budget

4. deterrence, anti-missile system


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</nat>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 010 </num>

<title> Topic: AIDS treatments


<desc> Description:

Document will mention a specific AIDS or ARC treatment.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must include a reference to at least one
specific potential Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS
Related Complex treatment.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), AIDS Related Complex
(ARC)

2. treatment, drug, pharmaceutical

3. test, trials, study

4. AZT, TPA

5. Genentech, Burroughs-Wellcome


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

ARC - AIDS Related Complex.  A set of symptoms similar to AIDS.

AZT - Azidothymidine, a drug for the treatment of Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome, its related pneumonia, and for severe AIDS
Related Complex.

TPA - Tissue Plasminogen Activator - a blood clot-dissolving drug.

treatment - any drug or procedure used to reduce the debilitating
effects of AIDS or ARC.

</top>



<top>

<num> 011 </num>

<title> Topic: Space Program


<desc> Description:

Document discusses the goals or plans of the space program or a space
project of any country or organization.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must discuss the goals or plans of a space
program (e.g. the Space Station Freedom) or space project (e.g.
Shuttle mission 29-A) and identify the organization sponsoring the
program.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Shuttle, Space Plane, space station

2. Magellan, planetary explorer, satellites

3. vehicle launch

4. NASA, Ariane, European Space Agency (ESA)

5. Astronaut, Cosmonaut

6. Explorer, Dicsovery, Columbia, Mir

7. Cape Canaveral, Star City

8. space


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Space program - coherent set of initiatives to exploit outer space
(e.g., the National Aeronautic and Space Agency (NASA) has a manned
space program).

Space project - a specific mission to exploit outer space (e.g., a
specific launch of the Space Shuttle).

</top>


<top>

<num> 012 </num>

<title> Topic: Water Pollution


<desc> Description:

Document is about the pollution of a body of water.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will discuss a body of water being polluted
or at risk of being polluted and the source of pollution.  The body of
water must be identified (e.g. Lake Erie, or the water supply of
Limestone, Maine).


<con> Concept(s):

1. spill, cleanup, ocean dumping, pollution

2. paper mill, supertanker, landfill

3. inland waterways, lake, ocean


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 013 </num>

<title> Topic: Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.


<desc> Description:

Document refers to Mitusbishi Heavy Industries Ltd.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must refer to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd.. (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries was under consideration to be the
prime contractor to build the FSX advanced fighter plane for the
United States military and is a member of a family of a dozen
Mitsubishi companies.) A document which refers to one of the other
Mitsubishi companies is not relevant. A document which refers to
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. outside of the context of the FSX is
relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.

2. FSX


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

FSX - Fighter Support Experimental a multi-billion dollar effort to
develop a build a high technology multiple mission U.S. fighter plane
for the early twenty first century.

</top>



<top>

<num> 014 </num>

<title> Topic: Drug Approval


<desc> Description:

Document cites current final national approval granted to a company to
market a drug for the treatment of a specific ailment.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will cite the current final national
approval granted to a company to market a drug to treat a specific
ailment.  The generic name of the drug or the name the drug will be
marketed under (the brand name), the ailment, and the name of the
company which received approval, must be identified.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  drug

2.  approve, approval

3.  market clearance

4.  NOT preliminary approval


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time: Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 015 </num>

<title> Topic: International Trade Liberalization Talks


<desc> Description:

Document will identify developments in international trade negotiations 
aimed at bolstering international commerce through reducing barriers to 
trade, or preventing the creation of such barriers.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document must provide substantive information on international 
trade liberalization talks, such as the specific categories of goods or 
trade practices at issue in the talks, proposed changes to current rules or 
practices, and the parties to the talks.  The negotiations may be bilateral, 
multilateral, or within the context of such existing mechanisms as the GATT.
However, such developments as U.S. Congressional debates or legislative 
proposals, unless directly linked to international discussions or formal 
negotiations, are NOT relevant. Similarly, editorial comment or position 
papers on the topic of international trade, or the U.S. trade deficit, are 
NOT relevant, unless they deal with ongoing or pending talks. 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT

2.  Uruguay Round (of trade liberalization talks)

3.  Multi-fiber Arrangement

4.  EC Commission

5.  Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, MITI

6.  dumping, subsidies, sanctions, invisible barriers, tariffs, trade war,
non-discrimination, fair trade


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 016 </num>

<title> Topic: Marketing of Agrochemicals


<desc> Description:

Document will describe marketing strategies carried out by U.S.
companies for their agricultural chemicals, report predictions for
market share of such chemicals, or report market statistics for the
chemicals.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will report information about sales or
marketing of agricultural chemicals by U.S. companies either in the
U.S. or abroad.  The document must include information in one of three
categories, marketing strategies such as price reductions, forecasts
of future market share, or report actual sales of the chemicals.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  pesticide, herbicide, fungicide, insecticide, fertilizer

2.  predicted sales, market share, stimulate demand, price cut, volume
of sales


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>


<top>

<num> 017 </num>

<title> Topic: Measures to Control Agrochemicals


<desc> Description:

Document will announce measures to ban, regulate, or curb use of
agricultural chemicals in the U.S. or use of chemicals abroad on
produce for the U.S. market.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will report measures taken to test and ban
chemicals, or to test and ban from the U.S. market, produce treated
with chemicals.  Documents will cover both reporting on regulation of
chemicals in the U.S. and lack of regulation of chemicals in third
world countries which results in attempts to ban from the U.S. market,
foodstuffs contaminated with chemicals from the U.S. market.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  pesticide, herbicide, fungiacide, insecticide, fertilizer

2.  Lasso, dinoseb, thallium sulphate, EDB, alachlor, metolachlor,
benzene hexachloride, nitrates

3.  Clean Water Act, Superfund, Clean Air Act

4.  EPA, OSHA, National Academy of Sciences, Environmental Crimes
Bureau, National Agricultural Chemicals Association, National Wildlife
Federation

5.  regulate, ban, controls


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<nat> Nationality: NOT U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>


<top>

<num> 018 </num>

<title> Topic: Japanese Stock Market Trends


<desc> Description:

Document will identify trends in the Japanese stock market.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will identify trends in the Japanese
(Nikkei, Tokyo) stock market.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Nikkei

2. upward trend, bull trend, downward trend

3. plummet, slip, climb, edge up, rise, surge

4. turbulence, volatility, solid performance, bull market, bear
market, record close

5. correction

6. stocks, bonds, tokkin funds

7. stock average, Nikkei average, share prices


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>




<top>

<num> 019 </num>

<title> Topic:  U.S. Protectionist Measures


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a trade protection measure designed to benefit an
identified U.S. corporation or industry.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document will identify a proposed or enacted U.S. federal 
law, regulation, or executive action designed to limit or control imports 
into the U.S. of foreign produced goods which compete with specific U.S. 
corporations or industries.  The measures taken or to be taken must be 
specified -- tariffs increased, import quotas set, retaliatory measures 
authorized, etc. -- and the action must be quantified (e.g. tariffs increased
100%, imports per year limited to X number of units, etc.).  General 
political discussions of trade issues are NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  protectionism, countervailing duties, fair trade rules, retaliation, 
unfair trade practices, level playing field, Japan bashing

2.  Commerce Department's International Trade Administration, ITA,
International Trade Commission, U.S. Trade Representative, Office of the USTR

3.  Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, MITI, EC Commission 



<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 020 </num>

<title> Topic: Patent Infringement Lawsuits


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss a current patent infringement lawsuit.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss a current, settled or pending, patent
infringement lawsuit.  It will identify the plaintiff, the defendant,
and a specific (reference to a product or technology that infringes or
allegedly infringes a patent) or general (reference to an industry)
complaint.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  patent infringement suit, patent-infringement lawsuit, patent
dispute, patent action, patent case

2.  sue, file a complaint

3.  plaintiff, defendant

4.  issue a preliminary injunction, enjoin

4.  win, lose, settle, issue a permanent injunction, reinstate an
injunction

5.  damages, damage claim


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time: Current

</fac>

<def> Definition(s):

</top>


<top>

<num> 021 </num>

<title> Topic: Superconductors


<desc> Description:

Document cites a breakthrough in superconductivity research and
identifies at least one commercial application.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will cite a specific breakthrough in
superconductivity research, through development or use of new
materials, e.g., achieving superconductivity at a relatively higher
temperature (the goal being an economically practical level),
overcoming current-density limitation, ability to fabricate
superconductors in the shapes needed for practical applications; and
will identify at least one specific commercial application.  The
entity which achieved the breakthrough must also be identified.


<con> Concept(s):

1. discovery, breakthrough, first, development, step, advance

2. new materials, thin-film material, advanced ceramics

3. temperature

4. tiny supercomputers, magnetically levitated trains, electric cars


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Superconductivity - passage of electricity through a material without
significant loss of energy to resistance

</top>




<top>

<num> 022 </num>

<title> Topic: Counternarcotics


<desc> Description:

Document will announce countermeasures to curb the production of
illegal drugs abroad or to curb the entry of illegal drugs into the
U.S.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will report measures taken by the U.S.
Government either to curb production of drugs, to curb entry into the
U.S. of drugs, or to prosecute those involved in drug trafficking,
laundering of drug money, or racketeering related to drugs.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  cocaine, heroin, opium, coca, poppies, hemp, marijuana, crack,
hashish

2.  smuggling, cartel, traffic, drug lords

3.  producers, refineries, crops

4.  Colombia, Peru, Golden Triangle, Burma, Thailand, Turkey


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 023 </num>

<title> Topic: Legal Repercussions of Agrochemical Use


<desc> Description:

Document will announce legal remedies for misuse, accidental or
intentional, of agrochemicals worldwide.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will report on legal cases, either pending
or decided, which adjudicate damages caused by misuse or accidental
exposure to agricultural chemicals.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  pesticide, herbicide, fungicide, insecticide, fertilizer

2.  Agent Orange, Bhopal

3.  file suit, legal claims, judgment, counterclaims, court papers,
liability, settlement fund, victims, accident, disaster,
after-effects, out of court settlement, allegations, interim payment


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 024 </num>

<title> Topic: New Medical Technology


<desc> Description:

Document reports new medical breakthroughs, in treatments, drugs,
equipment.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will describe a new treatment, new
equipment, or a new drug as well as the company, hospital or
institution which has carried out the research and developed the new
treatment.  The description of the new treatment will include both a
description of the old treatment and the new procedure.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  medical miracle, breakthrough, research, new treatment,
development

2.  initial tests, promising results, controlled tests

3.  patients, doctors, surgeons, nutrition scientists

4.  cancer, AIDS, burns, leukemia, fat


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 025 </num>

<title> Topic: Aftermath of Chernobyl


<desc> Description:

Document cites measures taken by European countries to record or
contain the results of the Chernobyl accident.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will cite an action undertaken by a
European government such as testing food supplies, testing water,
measuring fallout, simulating nuclear accidents, banning new reactor
construction, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Chernobyl, nuclear accident, radiation, fallout, contamination

2.  consequences, evacuation, health fears, cancer

3.  banning foodstuffs, propaganda campaign, limiting exposure,
testing soil, food, water


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: any European country

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 026 </num>

<title> Topic: Tracking Influential Players in Multimedia

<desc> Description: 

Document identifies companies that develop multimedia applications, 
standards or specifications.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant a document must identify companies that develop multimedia 
applications, standards, or specifications.  Documents identifying Apple, 
Microsoft and IBM as multimedia developers are NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. multimedia, multi-media, interactive media

2. CD-ROM, desktop video

3. applications, developers

4. standards, interfaces

5. NOT Apple, NOT Microsoft, NOT IBM

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Multimedia - Communicating information in more than one form and it
includes the use of text, audio, graphics and full- motion video.

</top>


<top>

<num> 027 </num>

<title> Topic: Expert systems and neural networks in business or
manufacturing.


<desc> Description: 

Document describes an expert system or neural network application for 
business or manufacturing in layman's terms.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must describe an operational or prototype 
expert system used in business or manufacturing. The description of the 
principles behind the operation of the expert system or neural network must 
be written in layman's terms, where a layman is considered any literate 
English speaking non-computer scientist.

<con> Concept(s):

1. expert system, rule-based, knowledge base, artificial intelligence,
AI

2. neural network, connectionism


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Expert System - An artificial intelligence application that uses a
knowledge base of human expertise to aid in solving a problem.  The
expert system derives its answers by executing a set of "if-then"
rules, called a knowledge base through a software program that
interacts with the user to ask questions, get input and explain the
rationale for the answer. Examples of expert systems can be found in
medical diagnosis, equipment repair, investment analysis, financial,
estate, and insurance planning, route scheduling and production
control and training.

Neural Network - A modeling technique that is based on the observed
behavior of biological neurons and is used to mimic the performance of
a system.  It consists of elements that start out connected in a
random pattern, and, based upon operational feedback, are molded into
the pattern of connections required to generate the required results.
Neural networks are used in applications such as robotics,
diagnostics, forecasting, image processing and pattern recognition.

</top>


<top>

<num> 028 </num>

<title> Topic: AT&T's Technical Efforts


<desc> Description: 

Document must describe AT&T's technical efforts in computers and 
communications.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must contain information on American Telephone 
and Telegraph's (AT&T) technical efforts in computers and communications.  
Examples of relevant subject matter would include: product announcements, 
releases or cancellations, and discussion of AT&T Bell Labs research. 
Documents focusing either AT&T's efforts to buy other computer companies or 
AT&T's legal battles with other organizations, or AT&T's Unix operating 
system are NOT relevant. For the purposes of this topic the Regional Bell 
Operating Companies, (RBOC's) or the "Baby Bells" are not considered AT&T.



<con> Concept(s):

1. AT&T, American Telephone and Telegraph

2. 3B-2 minicomputer, AT&T 386 PC

3. AT&T Starlan

4. PBX,

5. Product announcements, product releases

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 029 </num>

<title> Topic: Foreign installation of AT&T communications products


<desc> Description: 

Document cites efforts by a foreign entity to obtain communications 
technology from AT&T.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must identify efforts by any foreign entity 
except the United Kingdom and Canada to obtain communications technology 
from AT&T with the intent to install this technology.  For the purposes of 
this topic AT&T includes the Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOC's) or 
the "Baby Bells".  Relevant communications technology includes, but is not 
limited to: switching systems, fiber optics and network management systems.


<con> Concept(s):

1.AT&T, Bell

2.PBX, digital switch

3.fiber optic

4.contract, award

5.install

6. upgrade, modernize

7. NOT the United Kingdom, NOT Canada

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Fiber Optics - Communications meduim using optical fibers made of thin
glass wire for the transmission of light.

Network Management - The monitoring of an active network in order to
detect, analyze and fix problems and gather statistics for network
administration and fine tuning.

PBX - An inhouse telephone switching system that electronically
interconnects one telephone extension to another, as well as to the
outside world.


</top>


<top>

<num> 030 </num>

<title> Topic: OS/2 problems


<desc> Description: 

Document cites problems associated with IBM's operating system product OS/2.



<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document will cite either a technical, aesthetic, 
administrative, or financial problem associated with International Business 
Machine's (IBM) operating system product 0S/2.  This includes problems OS/2 
causes for other pieces of software (e.g. delays in product availability or 
product instability).


<con> Concept(s):

1. OS/2

2. IBM, Microsoft

3. problems, delays, immaturity

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

operating system - A master control program that runs the computer and
acts as a scheduler and traffic cop.  It allows all applications
programs to consume computer resources by performing job, task, data,
device and security management.

OS/2 - A single user, multi-tasking operating system for personal
computers with Intel 286 and higher central processing units jointly
developed by Microsoft Corp. and IBM.

</top>


<top>

<num> 031 </num>

<title> Topic: Advantages of OS/2


<desc> Description: 

Document cites technical advantages of IBM's OS/2 product over competing 
products.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must present technical advantages offered 
by OS/2 over other PC operating systems or windowing environments.


<con> Concept(s):

1.OS/2

2.advantages, strengths

3. comparison, vs.

4. Windows, X-windows, DOS

5. IBM, Microsoft

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):


operating system - A master control program that runs the computer and
acts as a scheduler and traffic cop.  It allows all applications
programs to consume computer resources by performing job, task, data,
device and security management.

OS/2 - A single user, multi-tasking operating system for personal
computers with Intel 286 and higher central processing units jointly
developed by Microsoft Corp. and IBM.

window - a separate viewing area on a display screen as provided by
the software.

windows environment - Any operating system, operating system extension
or application program that provides multiple windows on a screen.

</top>



<top>

<num> 032 </num>

<title> Topic: Who outsources computer work to whom


<desc> Description: 

Document will identify a company that outsources some of its computer work 
to another company.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, the document must identify an outsourcing relationship 
between a specific information processing service provider and a client.


<con> Concept(s):

1. outsourcing, support, services

2. in-house, out-of-house

3. data center management, facilities management, network management.

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Outsourcing - a contractual commitment to purchase support services
(especially computer support) from another company rather than doing
the work in-house.  An example of outsourcing is if company A pays
company B to manage their computer facilities, or if company A simply
ships work to company B who performs some information processing
function on the work and returns the processed work to company A.

</top>


<top>

<num> 033 </num>

<title> Topic: Companies Capable of Producing Document Management
Systems

<desc> Description: 

Document must identify a company who has the capability to produce a 
document management system by obtaining a turnkey-system or by obtaining 
and integrating the basic components.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, the document must identify a turnkey document management 
system or components which could be integrated to form a document management 
system and the name of either the company developing the system or the 
company using the system.  These components are: a computer, image scanner 
or optical character recognition system, and an information retrieval or 
text management system.


<con> Concept(s):

1. document management, document processing, office automation,
electronic imaging

2. image scanner, optical character recognition (OCR)

3. text management, text retrieval text database

4. optical disk

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Document Management - The creation, storage and retrieval of documents
containing, text, images, and graphics.

Image Scanner - A device that converts a printed image into a video
image, without recognizing the actual content of the text or pictures.

Optical Character Recognition - The machine recognition of printed
characters.

Text Management - The creation, storage and retrieval of long, or
unlimited, lengths of text, implying flexible retrieval capabilities.

Optical Disk - A disk that is written and read by light, and are
sometimes associated with the storage of digital images because of
their high storage capacity.


</top>


<top>

<num> 034 </num>

<title> Topic: Entities Involved In Building ISDN Applications and
Developing Strategies to Exploit ISDN


<desc> Description: 

Document must describe applications companies plan to build (are building, 
have built) for themselves or for others, which exploit ISDN's services 
and capabilities or identify general strategies for using ISDN.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must identify a company's strategy for using 
Integrated Services Digital Networks (ISDN) or building or using applications
which take advantage of ISDN.


<con> Concept(s):

1. ISDN

2. Strategy, Applications, Products,

3. Networks


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Integrated Services Digital Networks (ISDN) - An international
telecommunications standard for transmitting voice, video and data
over a digital communications line.

</top>


<top>

<num> 035 </num>

<title> Topic: Alternatives to Postscript


<desc> Description: 

Document must identify a need for, or the existence of, an alternative to 
Postscript.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must identify a need for, or the existence of, 
an alternative to Postscript, a page description language.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Postcript alternatives

2. Adobe

3. Apple, Microsoft




<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):


Page Description Language - A high level language for defining printer
output.

Postscript - A page description language from Adobe Systems, Inc.,
used in a wide variety of printers.

</top>


<top>

<num> 036 </num>

<title> Topic: How Rewritable Optical Disks Work


<desc> Description: 

Document describes the principles and mechanisms behind rewritable optical 
disk technology.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must describe how rewritable optical disk 
technology works at length and in significant and comprehensive technical 
detail.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Rewritable Optical Disks



<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Optical Disk Drives - A disk that is written and read by light.

 </top>


<top>

<num> 037 </num>

<title> Topic: Identify SAA components


<desc> Description: 

Document identifies software products which adhere to IBM's SAA standards.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must identify a piece of software which is 
considered a Systems Application Architectural (SAA) component or one 
which conforms to SAA.


<con> Concept(s):

1. SAA

2. OfficeVision

3. IBM

4. Standards, Interfaces, Compatibility

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):


OfficeVision - A series of integrated office automation applications
from IBM that runs across all of its major coputer families.

Systems Application Architecture (SAA) - A set of IBM standards that
provide consistent user interfaces, programming interfaces, and
communications protocols among all IBM computers from micro to
mainframe.


</top>


<top>

<num> 038 </num>

<title> Topic:  Impact of the "Religious Right" on U.S. Law


<desc> Description:

Document will report on specific legal actions which reflect actions by, and 
the agenda of, the "religious right."


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, the document must report on laws and ordinances enacted or
proposed (at the federal, state, or local levels), or legal actions taken
(initial suits or appellate court proceedings) which reflect the
social/political agenda of the "religious right."  For purposes of this topic,
relevant issues to the "religious right" are:  education policy (school 
prayer, sex education, "creationism" in the biology curriculum, and 
censorship of textbooks and student publications), sexual behavior 
(homosexuality, sex education, and abortion), and pornography (definition of 
the obscene, censorship of radio and TV broadcasts, and controlling "obscene"
 public entertainments).  A relevant document will give details on what the 
law, ordinance, or court case entail, whether initiated by the "religious 
right" or its opposition.  A NOT relevant document would discuss the issue 
simply in rhetorical, historical, or political terms.  Also NOT relevant are 
debates over court appointments and speculation as to how a particular 
nominee might vote on a given issue.    


<con> Concept(s):

1.  scientific creationism, evolution, secular humanism, cultural relativism,
sex education, school prayer

2.  Supreme Court, District Court, Federal Communications Commission, FCC

3.  Christian fundamentalists, charismatics, born again, religious right

4.  Moral Majority, Creation Research Society, Morality in Media  

5.  homosexuality, abortion, anti-abortion, right to privacy, pro-choice,
pro-life

6.  obscenity, pornography, censorship   


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

<time>  Time:  past, current, or future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

"Religious Right:" at times the term is used pejoratively by the press,
which probably coined the expression, but the religious right is a relatively
large (if only partially organized) segment of the U.S. public which is
church-going, religiously conservative, and reactive against trends in society
which they regard to be immoral, anti-church, and anti-family.  Often inspired
by protestant fundamentalism (in the case of Roman Catholics, usually 
motivated by the abortion issue), the religious right has become identified 
with a set of legal, social, and political issues such as those noted above.    
</top>


<top>

<num> 039 </num>

<title> Topic: Client-Server Plans and Expectations


<desc> Description: 

Document must state how a client-server implementation will be carried out 
and why it will help them.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must provide an indication of how an organization 
will implement client-server architectures, build client-server applications 
or how they feel client-server architectures will increase productivity.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Client-Server


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Client-Server- In a communications network, the client is the
requesting machine and the server is the supplying machine.  It
implies that software is specialized at each end.  For example, in a
database system, the user interface would reside in the workstation,
and the storage and retrieval functions would reside in the server.

</top>



<top>

<num> 040 </num>

<title> Topic:  Analyses of Savings and Loan Failures


<desc> Description:

Document will provide at least one reason why a U.S. Savings and Loan has 
failed, or why the industry generally is under stress.


<narr> Narrative: 

A relevant document will give at least one reason why a particular U.S. 
Savings and Loan has failed, or is about to be closed by public authorities 
or acquired by another financial institution.  A relevant document also 
could discuss problems in the Savings and Loan industry generally, citing at 
least one specific reason why S&L's are failing.  Unless containing some 
level of failure analysis, a document which simply reports on political 
discourse about the banking industry, reveals actions by public authorities, 
or, provides details on asset disposition or ownership/leadership changes at 
a given S&L, is NOT relevant. 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  savings and loan, S&L, thrift industry

2.  Federal Home Loan Bank Board

3.  Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, FSLIC

4.  Federal Asset Disposition Association


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>


<top>

<num> 041 </num>

<title> Topic: Computer or Communications Systems Upgrade


<desc> Description: 

Document must identify an organization beginning, in the midst, or recently 
completing a computer or communications system upgrade.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must discuss the phasing out of an older 
generation of computer hardware, software or communications equipment in an 
operational computer or communications system. The document must also name 
the organization responsible for the upgrade and the technology to be used 
in the upgrade.  Documents announcing product upgrades or new releases of 
existing products are NOT relevant.



<con> Concept(s):

1. upgrade, transitions, phase-out

2. NOT product upgrades

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>


<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description

<num> 042 </num>

<title> Topic: What is End User Computing and Who's Doing It


<desc> Description: 

Document must discuss end-user computing in general or identify 
organizations performing end-user computing or showing a capacity for 
performing end-user computing.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must discuss end-user computing, or identify 
organizations either currently engaged in end-user computing or showing a 
capacity for end-user computing at some time in the future.  Indications of 
the capacity for end-user computing would include any two of the following : 
1) previous history of, or ongoing decentralization of computing power 
(moving from mainframes to minicomputers, or moving from minicomputers to 
personal computers or workstations), 2) the purchase of large numbers of
personal computers, workstations and servers, 3) increased computer
training of professional and managerial staff, 4) the installation of
local area networks, 5) investment in 4GL software development tools,
desktop publishing, spreadsheets, or database applications.


<con> Concept(s):

1. End User Computing (EUC)

2. Open Shop Programming

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

End User Computing - The involvement of non data processing
professionals in the use of information technology.  The direct use of
computer power by professionals and managers to improve productivity.
Data manipulation, support and data processing decision making is the
responsibility of the end user.

</top>


<top>

<num> 043 </num>

<title> Topic: U.S. Technology Policy


<desc> Description:

Document will describe federal actions to encourage, select, or protect
technology because of its presumed centrality to the future defense posture 
or economic competitiveness of the U.S.


<narr> Narrative: 

A relevant document will describe a federal action to aid research and 
development in an "emerging" or high technology area, to target commercial 
development of particular technologies deemed essential to future 
U.S.  competitiveness, or to protect those technologies, products, and 
processes which are to be kept under U.S. control because of defense and 
security considerations.  Although pertinent science, technology, and public 
policy issues are often discussed under such rubrics as "industrial policy," 
U.S.  competitiveness, or free trade vs. protectionism, a document is NOT 
relevant unless it identifies an actual federal action -- regulatory, legal, 
or financial -- reflective of such technology policy.  Relevant actions 
include provision of tax credits, providing research grants, extending 
antitrust exemptions, and prohibiting a proposed technology transfer.  
Relevant technologies include, but are not limited to, robotics, 
telecommunications equipment, computers, biotechnology, process technologies,
and advanced materials.      


<con> Concept(s):

1.  industrial policy, technology policy, cutting edge technology,
competitiveness, technology transfer controls, free trade, protectionism

2.  Sematech  

3.  Coretech, Council on Research and Technology

4.  National Science Foundation, NSF 

5.  Defense Science Board 


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Sematech: a research consortium for semiconductor manufacturing techniques 

</top>


<top>

<num> 044 </num>

<title> Topic: Staff Reductions at Computers and Communications
Companies


<desc> Description: 

Document reports cutbacks or projected cutbacks of more than 500 workers 
for a computer or communications company.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must contain information about a cutback of more 
than 500 workers at a company that sells some kind of computer or computer 
service or produces computer or communications hardware or software.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cutbacks, layoffs, attrition, reductions, fired

2. computers, communications

3. staff, management, workers

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):


</top>



<top>

<num> 045 </num>

<title> Topic: What Makes CASE succeed or fail


<desc> Description: 

Document must identify the ingredients for making CASE work, and identify 
companies with experience using CASE.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must identify both the ingredients to the 
successful implementation of Computer Aided Software Engineering (CASE) and 
the companies that have had either success or failure in their attempts to 
use CASE tools and adopt CASE methodologies.

<con> Concept(s):


1. Computer Aided Software Engineering (CASE), rapid prototyping,
information engineering

2. success, improvement, productivity increase

3. fail, training, complexity, inflexible


<fac> Factor(s):



<def> Definition(s):

Computer Aided Software Engineering - Software that is used in any and
all phases of developing an information system, including analysis,
design and programming.

</top>


<top>

<num> 046 </num>

<title> Topic: Tracking Computer Virus Outbreaks


<desc> Description: 

Document will identify a computer virus attack and name the victimized 
organization.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, the document must contain a description of an outbreak of a 
computer virus, and name the victimized organization.



<con> Concept(s):

1. virus, worm, Madonna, Jerusalem-B, Stoned

2. computer


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Virus - A program used to infect a computer.  The purpose of the virus
can range from a simple prank to the destruction of data and programs.

</top>


<top>

<num> 047 </num>

<title> Topic: Contracts for Computer systems in excess of $1 Million.

<desc> Description: 

Document must report the granting of a contract for computer or 
communications equipment or services valued at more than $1 Million.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must identify the selection of a source for the 
development or delivery of information systems products or services valued 
at more than $1 Million dollars.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Acquisition, procurement, contract, award

2. Million, Billion

3. computer, communications

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>


<top>

<num> 048 </num>

<title> Topic: Purchasers of Modern Communications Equipment


<desc> Description: 

Document must identify an organization purchasing a piece of communications 
equipment or software, described in database.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must identify an organization which is purchasing 
a PBX, Local Area Network, Fax machine, or network management system which 
is discussed in any document in the database.

<con> Concept(s):

1. PBX, LAN, Network Management, Fax

2. Purchase, Acquisition, Contract

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

PBX - An inhouse telephone switching system that electronically
interconnects one telephone extension to another, as well as to the
outside telephone network.


</top>


<top>

<num> 049 </num>

<title> Topic: Who's working with Supercomputers


<desc> Description: 

Document must identify an organization involved in the operation, 
programming or purchase of a supercomputer.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must identify one of the following: a 
supercomputing center, a supercomputer purchase, a supercomputer export 
authorization, or the granting of a contract to a company known to perform 
supercomputer support services.



<con> Concept(s):

1. Supercomputer, Cray, IBM 3090

2. Contract, authorization, purchase, sale, establish

3. Research

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Supercomputer- the most powerful computers available, typically
consisting of multiple processors optimized to execute in the most
efficient manner possible.

</top>


<top>

<num> 050 </num>

<title> Topic: Potential Military Interest in Virtual Reality
Applications


<desc> Description: 

Document must describe virtual reality investigations being conducted by 
entities associated with the military industrial complex.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, the document must describe virtual reality applications. 
In addition, the organization involved in virtual reality applications must 
be a government agency or an established defense contractor (e.g. TRW, 
Hughes, Ford Aerospace etc.).

<con> Concept(s):

1. Virtual Reality (VR), cyberspace

2. Department of Defense, government

<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

Virtual Reality - A computer simulated reality that can interact with
all the senses.

</top>

<top>

<num> 051 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Airbus Subsidies


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite or discuss assistance to Airbus Industrie by the
French, German, British or Spanish government(s), or will discuss a trade
dispute between Airbus or the European governments and a U.S. aircraft
producer, most likely Boeing Co. or McDonnell Douglas Corp., or the U.S.
government, over federal subsidies to Airbus.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Airbus Industrie

2. European aircraft consortium, Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm GmbH, British
   Aerospace PLC, Aerospatiale, Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A.
  
3. federal subsidies, government assistance, aid, loan, financing

4. trade dispute, trade controversy, trade tension

5. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) aircraft code

6. Trade Policy Review Group (TPRG)

7. complaint, objection

8. retaliation, anti-dumping duty petition, countervailing duty petition,
   sanctions


<fac> Factor(s):



<def> Definition(s):

</top>

<top>




<num> 052 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  South African Sanctions


<desc> Description:

Document discusses sanctions against South Africa.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses international sanctions against South Africa.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss any aspect of South African sanctions, such
as: sanctions declared/proposed by a country against the South African
government in response to its apartheid policy, or in response to pressure by
an individual, organization or another country; international sanctions
against Pretoria imposed by the United Nations; the effects of sanctions
against S. Africa; opposition to sanctions; or, compliance with sanctions by a
company.  The document will identify the sanctions instituted or being
considered, e.g., corporate disinvestment, trade ban, academic boycott, arms
embargo.


<con> Concept(s):

1. sanctions, international sanctions, economic sanctions

2. corporate exodus, corporate disinvestment, stock divestiture, ban on new
   investment, trade ban, import ban on South African diamonds, U.N. arms
   embargo, curtailment of defense contracts, cutoff of nonmilitary goods,
   academic boycott, reduction of cultural ties

3. apartheid, white domination, racism

4. antiapartheid, black majority rule   

5. Pretoria


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  South Africa

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 053 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Leveraged Buyouts  


<desc> Description:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<smry> Summary:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite a leveraged buyout (LBO) valued at or above 200
million dollars.  The LBO may be at any stage, e.g., considered, proposed,
pending, a fact.  The company (being) taken private must be identified.  The
offer may be expressed in dollars a share.


<con> Concept(s):

1. leveraged buyout, LBO

2. take private, go private

3. management-led leveraged buyout


<fac> Factor(s):
<price> Price:  >= 200 million dollars
</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Leveraged Buyout (LBO) - Takeover of a company using borrowed funds, with the
target company's assets serving as security for the loans taken out by the
acquiring firm, which repays the loans out of the cash flow of the acquired
company or from the sale of the assets of the acquired firm.

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 054 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Satellite Launch Contracts


<desc> Description:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<smry> Summary:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will mention the signing of a contract or preliminary
agreement , or the making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial
satellite.


<con> Concept(s):

1. contract, agreement

2. launch vehicle, rocket, payload, satellite
 
3. launch services, commercial space industry, commercial launch industry

4. Arianespace, Martin Marietta, General Dynamics, McDonnell Douglas

5. Titan, Delta II, Atlas, Ariane, Proton


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>



<num> 055 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Insider Trading


<desc> Description:  

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<narr> Narrative:  

A relevant document will discuss an insider-trading case, identifying the
accused/the defendant(s), as well as the government doing the investigation.
It will also mention at least one of the following specifics of the case: the
alleged illegal activity, whether charged with providing or using insider
information, possible conspirator's role in the scheme, the monetary amount of
illegal profit and of damage; if pronounced guilty, then the sentence terms,
e.g., monetary penalty (cash payment), time in prison, cooperation with the
government, probation, community service, being barred from the industry for a
certain time period.


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider-trading case

2. insider-trading scheme, illegal insider-trading activity, illegal
   securities transactions, white-collar crime, securities-law violations

3. insider-trading investigation, insider-trading probe

4. Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC

5. investment banking, investment banker, arbitrage, arbitrager, securities
   analyst

6. inside information, advance knowledge of corporate takeovers 

7. leaking information, misappropriating information, leaking word, leaking
   news, passing a tip

8. pre-bid market activity, takeover speculation, matched-book
   transaction


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Insider Trading - Dealing in shares with the advantage of inside information.
The owners of shares in a public company are all supposed to be equal - so if
one of them knows that the company is about to go broke before the others and
sells his shares while their price is still good, that is unfair.  In many
countries, including the U.S. and the U.K., it is also illegal.  However, it
is very difficult to prove that an investor is buying or selling shares on the
basis of inside information.

</top>
 
<top>



<num> 056 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Finance


<title> Topic:  Prime (Lending) Rate Moves, Predictions


<desc> Description:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<smry> Summary:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate
(national-level or major banks'), or will report a prime rate move by major
banks, in response to or in anticipation of a federal/national-level action,
such as a cut in the discount rate.


<con> Concept(s):

1. prime lending rate, prime rate, base rate, reference rate, minimum lending
   rate, bank rate, weekly bank rate

2. Federal Reserve Board, Bank of Canada, major commercial banks

3. foresee, expect, predict, speculate

4. move, increase, decrease, rise, decline, boost, cut 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 057 </num>


<dom> Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title> Topic:  MCI


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss how MCI has been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss how MCI (Multiport Communications Interface) has
been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<narr> Narrative:
 
A relevant document will discuss the financial health of MCI Communications
Corp. since the breakup of the Bell System (AT&T and the seven regional Baby
Bells) in January 1984.  The status indicated may not necessarily be a direct
or indirect result of the breakup of the system and ensuing regulation and
deregulation of Ma Bell or of the restrictions placed upon the seven Bells; it
may result from any number of factors, such as advances in telecommunications
technology, MCI initiative, etc.  MCI's financial health may be reported
directly: a broad statement about its earnings or cash flow, or a report
containing financial data such as a quarterly report; or it may be reflected
by one or more of the following: credit ratings, share of customers, volume
growth, cuts in capital spending, $$ figure net loss, pre-tax charge,
analysts' or MCI's own forecast about how well they will be doing, or MCI's
response to price cuts that AT&T makes at its own initiative or under orders
from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), such as price reductions,
layoffs of employees out of a perceived need to cut costs, etc.  Daily OTC
trading stock market and monthly short interest reports are NOT relevant; the
inventory must be longer term, at least quarterly.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  MCI Communications Corp.

2.  Bell System breakup

3.  Federal Communications Commission, FCC

4.  regulation, deregulation

5.  profits, revenue, net income, net loss, write-downs

6.  NOT daily OTC trading, NOT monthly short interest


<fac> Factor(s):

Time:  after January 1984

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 058 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Rail Strikes


<desc> Description:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<smry> Summary:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will either report an impending rail strike, describing
the conditions which may lead to a strike, or will provide an update on an
ongoing strike.  To be relevant, the document will identify the location of
the strike or potential strike.  For an impending strike, the document will
report the status of negotiations, contract talks, etc. to enable an
assessment of the probability of a strike.  For an ongoing strike, the
document will report the length of the strike to the current date and the
status of negotiations or mediation.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  rail strike, picket, stoppage, lockout, walkout, wildcat

2.  rail union, negotiator, railroad, federal conciliator, brotherhood

3.  union proposal, talks, settlement, featherbedding, cost cutting

4.  working without a contract, expired contract, cooling off period


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time:  Current

</fac>

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 059 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Weather Related Fatalities


<desc> Description:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include the number of people killed and injured by
the weather event, as well as reporting the type of weather event and the
location of the event.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  lightning, avalanche, tornado, typhoon, hurricane, heat, heat wave, flood,
    snow, rain, downpour, blizzard, storm, freezing temperatures

2.  dead, killed, fatal, death, fatality, victim

3.  NOT man-made disasters, NOT war-induced famine

4.  NOT earthquakes, NOT volcanic eruptions


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 060 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Merit-Pay vs. Seniority


<desc> Description:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy over the
use of standards of performance to determine salary levels and incentive pay
as contrasted with determining pay solely on the basis of seniority or
longevity on the job.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy
over a change in the use of standards of performance to determine
salary levels and incentive pay as contrasted with determining pay
solely on the basis of seniority or longevity on the job.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will name an employer (company, institution, or
governmental entity) which has announced a change in its policy regarding
merit vs. seniority in paying employees, or name an employee group (union or
lobbying group) which is protesting a change in merit vs. seniority status for
a particular employee group.  The change announced should be a move away from
one policy toward another, not an announcement of across-the-board cuts as a
cost-cutting measure.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  merit-pay, merit pay, performance, award program, bonus

2.  seniority, longevity, cost-of-living

3.  salary, pay, compensation, raise

4.  appraisal, evaluation, assessment, testing, career ladder, peer review,
    certifying


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 061 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Politics


<title> Topic:  Israeli Role in Iran-Contra Affair


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss Israel's role in the Iran-Contra Affair.  Any
mention or hint of Israeli involvement in the scandal, e.g., selling arms to
Iran, suggesting diverting profits from sales of arms to Iran to Nicaraguan
insurgents, participating in diversion of funds to the Contras, kicking back
money to Iranian officials, kidnapping relatives of top Iranian officials by
the Mossad (Israeli intelligence service) to be exchanged for U.S. hostages in
Lebanon, is relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Iran-Contra affair, initiative, controversy, scandal

2.  role of Israel, Israeli involvement

3.  Israeli intermediaries, middlemen, arms dealers, government officials

4.  David Kimche, Michael Ledeen, Jaacov Nimrodi


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 062 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Military


<title> Topic:  Military Coups D'etat


<desc> Description:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the country involved, the group responsible
for the coup or coup attempt, the target of the coup, and the motivation of
the coup plotters. It should NOT be about civilian government shake ups.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  coup d'etat, coup attempt, skirmish, revolt, mutiny

2.  oust, take charge, rebel, storm, surrender

3.  regime

4.  amnesty


<fac> Factor(s):

<Time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 063 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Machine Translation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a machine translation system which is being
developed or marketed in any country.  It will identify the developer or
vendor, name the system, and identify one or more features of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  machine translation system

2.  language, dictionary, font

3.  batch, interactive, process, user interface


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 064 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Hostage-Taking


<desc> Description:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report an attempt (successful or unsuccessful) to
seize a hostage for some political purpose, report on hostages currently held,
or report a current hostage release event.  The document will identify the
nationality of the victim, some identification of the perpetrators
(nationality or religion), and location where the hostage-taking occurred.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  kidnap, seize, hijack

2.  negotiate, trade, exchange, swap

3.  free, release

4.  retaliate

5.  captivity, terrorism

6.  captors, hostages, negotiator, victims


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 065 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Information Retrieval Systems


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of information retrieval system.


<smry> Summary:

A relevant document will identify a new information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify an information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  information retrieval system

2.  storage, database, data, query


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 066 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Natural Language Processing


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a company or institution developing or
marketing a natural language processing technology, identify the technology,
and identify one or more features of the company's product.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  natural language processing

2.  translation, language, dictionary, font

3.  software applications


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 067 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Politically Motivated Civil Disturbances


<desc> Description:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the location of the disturbance, the identity
of the group causing the disturbance, the nature of the disturbance, the
identity of the group suppressing the disturbance and the political goals of
the protesters. It should NOT be about economically-motivated civil
disturbances and NOT be about a civil disturbance directed against a second
country.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  protest, unrest, demonstration, march, riot, clash, uprising, rally,
    boycott, sit-in

2.  students, agitators, dissidents

3.  police, riot police, troops, army, National Guard, government forces

4.  NOT economically-motivated


<fac> Factor(s):

<time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 068 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Health Hazards from Fine-Diameter Fibers


<desc> Description:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the type of fiber in question, and whether the
fiber has been determined to be harmful or is merely suspected of being
harmful.

<con> Concept(s):

1.  fine-diameter fibers, glass, ceramic, mineral-wool, asbestos, cellulose

2.  diminished lung capacity, cancer

3.  workplace safety, OSHA


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 069 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Attempts to Revive the SALT II Treaty


<desc> Description:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will describe an attempt to push the U.S. Administration
to adhere to the limits on weapons proposed in SALT II.  To be relevant the
document must identify what group is pushing the policy and what methods they
are using to influence the U.S. Administration.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  SALT II, treaty, ceiling, missiles

2.  House, Senate, President, Europe

3.  war, enemy, fight


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

SALT II - Treaty signed by Carter and Brezhnev in 1979 limiting the number of
several categories of strategic weapons which the Soviet Union and the U.S.
would build and deploy.  The treaty was never ratified by the U.S. Senate, and
expired in 1985.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 070 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government


<title> Topic:  Surrogate Motherhood


<desc> Description:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report legal opinions, judgments, and decisions
regarding surrogate motherhood and the custody of any children which result
from surrogate motherhood.  To be relevant, a document must identify the case,
state the issues which are or were being decided and report at least one
ethical or legal question which arises from the case.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  surrogate, mothers, motherhood

2.  judge, lawyer, court, lawsuit, custody, hearing, opinion, finding


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):


</top>
 
<top>

<num>  071 </num>


<dom>  Domain:  Military


<title>  Topic:  Border Incursions


<desc>  Description:

Document will report incursions by land, air, or water into the border area of
one country by military forces of a second country or a guerrilla group based
in a second country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report brief incursions by land, air, or water into the
border area of one country by military forces of a second country or a
guerrilla group based in a second country.


<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the invading country or group, name the invaded
country, and identify the target or goal of the attacking force.  The target
or goal must be a military objective. It should NOT be about a war or invasion
in which troops remain on foreign soil for a sustained engagement. 
It should NOT be about a territorial dispute or economic dispute (such as
fishing rights) which is being negotiated or argued by civilian groups.



<con>  Concept(s):

1.  rebels, refugees, soldiers, guerrillas

2.  raid, assault, skirmish, dispute, fighting, clash, retaliation

3.  border, frontier, ford, thalweg, air space, territorial limit

4.  NOT sustained engagement

5.  NOT fishing rights

<fac>  Factor(s):


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num>  072 </num>


<dom>  Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title>  Topic:  Demographic Shifts in the U.S.


<desc>  Description:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the location (state, county, city, town, or
geographical area) which is undergoing a demographic shift, report whether the
shift is a gain or loss of population, and give some indication of the
magnitude of the shift such as a number, percentage, ratio, or ranking.
The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some impact on the economy of either the losing area, the
receiving area, or both.


<con>  Concept(s):

1.  population

2.  shift, gain, loss

3.  census


<fac>  Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 073 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Demographic Shifts across National Boundaries


<desc> Description:

Document will report a movement of people from one country to another for a
variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large enough
to have some economic impact.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report a movement of people from one country to another for a
variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large enough
to have some economic impact.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will name the location (country or geographical area of a
country) which is undergoing a demographic shift, report whether the shift is
a gain or loss of population, and give some indication of the magnitude of the
shift such as a number, percentage, ratio, or ranking.
The movement of population described should be large enough to
have some impact on the economy of either the losing country, the receiving
country, or both.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  population

2.  shift, gain, loss

3.  immigration, emigration, deportation, diaspora, exile


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 074 </num> 


<dom> Domain:  Political


<title> Topic:  Conflicting Policy 


<desc> Description:

Document will cite an instance in which the U.S. government propounds two 
conflicting or opposing policies. 


<smry> Summary:

Document will cite an instance in which the U.S. government propounds two 
conflicting or opposing policies. 


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite an instance in which the U.S. federal government
propounds two policies which are in conflict with or opposition to each other,
or seem at least hypocritical.  These policies may be cited in the same
document, or in two separate documents within one month's time.  The target is
conflicting policies, NOT a reversal of policy.  Examples of two-faced policy
of interest include: expending funds in the campaign against tobacco use while
subsidizing the U.S. tobacco industry and the marketing of U.S. tobacco
products abroad, allowing imports of produce treated with pesticide which is
banned in the U.S., disapproving the sale of deficient infant formula in the
U.S. while allowing it to be exported to the third world.


<con> Concept(s):

1. condemn, prohibit, ban

2. subsidize


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 075 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology 


<title> Topic:  Automation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify an instance in which automation has clearly paid off,
or conversely, has failed.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify an instance in which automation has clearly paid off,
or conversely, has failed.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite a case in which automation has been at least a
factor in cutting costs, by either increased efficiency or a smaller payroll
or both, or a case in which automation has failed for some reason in reducing
costs, or had disappointing results.  The case may involve an industry or a
particular firm.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  automation

2.  increased efficiency, smaller payroll, work force reduction

3.  pay off, cut costs


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 076 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government 


<title> Topic:  U.S. Constitution - Original Intent


<desc> Description:

Document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of the
original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.


<smry> Summary:

Document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of the
original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of
the original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.  (A mere reference to the problem is not relevant.)


<con> Concept(s):

1.  U.S. Constitution, separation of powers, body of the Constitution, Bill of
    Rights, First Amendment, Fifth Amendment

2.  original intent
  

<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 077 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Poaching


<desc> Description:

Document will report a poaching method used against a certain type of
wildlife.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report specific poaching activities including
identification of the type of wildlife being poached, the poaching
technique or method of killing the wildlife which is used by the
poacher, and the reason for the poaching.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the type of wildlife being poached, the
poaching technique or method of killing the wildlife which is used by the
poacher, and the reason for the poaching (e.g. for a trophy, meat, or money).
A report of poaching or someone caught for poaching without mention of the
technique used and the reason is not relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  poaching, illegal hunting, fishing, trapping, equipment

2.  territorial waters, economic zone, game preserve, refuge, park

3.  arrest, impound, fine

4.  issue, agreement, license, treaty, legal limit


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 078 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Greenpeace


<desc> Description:

Document will report activity by Greenpeace to carry out their environmental
protection goals.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report activity by Greenpeace to carry out their environmental
protection goals.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report a protest action by Greenpeace, citing the
company or country targeted by the organization, the specific target (such as
a ship, train, etc.), the action carried out by Greenpeace, and the objective
which Greenpeace sought to attain.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Greenpeace, environment, group, activist

2.  protest, disrupt, block, harass, scuttle, trespass, confront

3.  anti-nuclear, uranium, radioactive, missile


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 079 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  FRG Political Party Positions


<desc> Description:

Document will identify at least one German political party and report some
position which the party has taken in regard to a political, social, economic,
military, environmental, or international objective.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify at least one German political party or faction
and report some position which the party has taken in regard to a
political, social, economic, military, environmental, or international
objective.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report at least one goal or objective of one of the
German political parties.  The position will be stated clearly enough that the
reader will be able to understand where the party stands on a specific issue.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Social Democrats, SPD, Green Party, Christian Democratic Union, CDU, Reds,
    Green, Blacks, Christian Social Union

2.  oppose, support, demand

3.  proponents, advocates, allies

4.  swing, shift, aim, goal


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  Germany

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 080 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Political                          


<title> Topic:  1988 Presidential Candidates Platforms


<desc> Description:

Document will identify something about the platform of a 1988 presidential 
candidate.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify something about the platform of a 1988 presidential 
candidate.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify something about the platform of a 1988
presidential candidate: his campaign, plans, promises, philosophy, position on
an issue, issue(s) important to him, or how he would address an issue if
elected.  The platform of an individual candidate is of interest; the party
platform is not relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Bush, Dukakis, Gephardt, Dole, Haig, Simon, Robertson, Jackson, Kemp, 
Babbitt, DuPont, Gore, Hart, Biden

2.  platform, plans, idea, promise, position, stance, philosophy, posturing,
    campaign, issue

3.  presidential candidate, aspirant, contender, hopeful

4.  NOT Democratic party platform, NOT Republican party platform


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 081 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic: Financial crunch for televangelists in the wake of the PTL
scandal


<desc> Description:

Document will report a loss of revenue of a televangelist in the aftermath of
the PTL scandal, or a financial crisis triggered by the scandal.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a loss of revenue of a televangelist in the aftermath of
the PTL scandal, or a financial crisis triggered by the scandal.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a religious broadcaster, and report a
specific dollar amount or a percentage loss, indicating a decline in revenue
suffered by that broadcaster as a result of consumer reaction to the Jim
Bakker scandal.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  donations, confidence, checks, money, dollars

2.  plead, beg, cry

3.  down, fall, slip

4.  religious broadcasters, televangelists

5.  Bakker, Falwell, Robertson, Swaggart, Schuller, Roberts


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 082 </num> 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Genetic Engineering


<desc> Description:  

Document discusses a genetic engineering application, a product that has been,
is being, or will be developed by genetic manipulation, or attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses a genetic engineering application, a product that has been,
is being, or will be developed by genetic manipulation, or attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss a product, e.g., drug, microorganism,
vaccine, animal, plant, agricultural product, developed by genetic engineering
techniques; identify an application, such as to clean up the environment or
human gene therapy for a specific problem; or, present human attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<con> Concept(s):

1. genetic engineering, molecular manipulation

2. biotechnology
 
3. genetically engineered product: plant, animal, drug, microorganism,
   vaccine, agricultural product

4. cure a disease, clean up the environment, increase agricultural
   productivity
 

<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 083 </num>


<dom> Domain: Environment 


<title> Topic: Measures to Protect the Atmosphere


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss plans, projects, agreements, treaties, or laws concluded
or under consideration aimed at protecting the atmosphere.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss plans, projects, agreements, treaties, or laws concluded
or under consideration aimed at protecting the atmosphere.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss specific steps taken or under consideration
at the multilateral, bilateral, or national level to protect the atmosphere.
The plan, project, agreement, treaty, or law discussed in the document will
identify steps taken or to be taken under the measure and its purpose
(limiting chlorofluorocarbon emissions, reducing acid rain, containing carbon
dioxide buildup, or blocking deforestation) and not focus on scientific debate
or research into such atmospheric phenomena as ozone depletion and global
warming.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Greenhouse effect, global warming, carbon dioxide buildup

2.  Acid rain, smokestack emissions

3.  Deforestation

4.  Chlorofluorocarbons   


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 084 </num>


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Alternative/renewable Energy Plant & Equipment Installation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify planned or under-construction alternative/renewable
energy plant or equipment installations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify planned or under-construction alternative/renewable
energy plant or equipment installations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a specific alternative/renewable energy
plant or equipment installation planned or under-construction, to include the
technology employed, projected capacity or output, location, and specific
financial information, e.g. total cost, source of funding, estimated unit
production costs, etc.  Document will not focus on political discussions of
developing sources of alternate energy, nor will it focus on macroeconomic
discussions of national energy needs.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Alternative energy, renewable energy

2.  Cogeneration, hydro power, solar energy, windmills, geothermal, biomass


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time:  future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 085 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government 


<title> Topic:  Official Corruption


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss allegations, or measures being taken against, corrupt
public officials of any governmental jurisdiction worldwide.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss allegations, or measures being taken against, corrupt
public officials of any governmental jurisdiction worldwide.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss charges or actions being taken against
corrupt public officials (be they elected, appointed, or career civil servant)
anywhere in the world.  The allegations or charges must be specific, e.g.
bribes taken >from a named group or individual with a given objective, rather
than generalized allegations of endemic political corruption, or moves against
corporate or private malfeasance (unless linked to an official corruption
case).


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Official corruption, public corruption

2.  Bribery, prostitution, cover-up, undercover investigation,
    influence-peddling, illegal payment, collusion


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 086 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic:  Bank Failures


<desc> Description:

Document will identify recent bank failures within the United States,
specifying name, location, assets, and federal or state authorities taking
action.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify recent closings by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation of a failed commercial bank chartered within the U.S.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document, in addition to giving specific identifying information on
a failed bank (or banks), must be clear that the bank was chartered within the
United State and that it is a bank, as opposed to another financial
institution such as a savings and loan or credit union, and must specify the
actions taken or being taken by the public authorities.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Bank failure

2.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, FDIC, Comptroller of the Currency,
    state banking authorities, state bank regulators


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time>  Time:  current

</fac>  


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 087 </num>


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Criminal Actions Against Officers of Failed
               Financial Institutions


<desc> Description:

Document will report on current criminal actions against officers of a failed
U.S. financial institution.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on current criminal actions against officers of a failed
U.S. banking institution (including all categories of banking).


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will discuss a recently concluded or pending
criminal case being pursued by U.S. federal or state authorities against
officers of a failed financial institution.  Civil actions, such as creditor
claims filed for recovery of losses, are not relevant.  The failed institution
may have been insured by either federal or state funds and may belong to any
category of financial institution, e.g. bank, savings and loan, credit union,
etc.  Although not essential, it would be preferable if the document provided
such details on the case as specific crime, losses to insurance funds,
penalties imposed, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  FDIC, bank, thrift, savings & loan, bank

2.  suit, trial, restitution, default, conspiracy, audit, fraud, felony


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time:  current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 088 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Crude Oil Price Trends


<desc> Description:

Document will provide quantitative data usable in charting international
crude oil price trends.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide quantitative data usable in charting international
crude oil price trends.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document must contain international crude oil production and
price data in at least two out of the three following categories: reported
daily output by any member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) or the larger non-OPEC producers (e.g. U.S., USSR, Mexico,
Norway, and Great Britain); the official production quota set by OPEC for any
of its members; and, prices in at least one of the so-called "benchmark" crude
oil markets (specifically, West Texas Intermediate, North Sea Brent, Rotterdam
crude oil spot market, and crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile
Exchange).  Documents referencing OPEC and its members likely will report or
speculate about political and diplomatic moves related to the "official" OPEC
price, but such information by itself is not directly relevant.  The best
documents would be those which summarize and statistically analyze crude oil
production and price data over a period of time, rather than those which
simply report daily market numbers.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC

2.  Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
    Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 
    Venezuela.

3.  U.S., USSR, Mexico, Norway, Great Britain

3.  West Texas Intermediate, North Sea Brent, Rotterdam spot, New York
    Mercantile Exchange.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 089 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: "Downstream" Investments by OPEC Member States


<desc> Description: 

Document must identify an existing or pending investment by an OPEC member
state in any "downstream" operation.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify an existing or pending investment by an OPEC member
state in any "downstream" operation.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must identify an existing or pending investment by
an OPEC member state (or its national oil company) in any "downstream"
installation or enterprise.  The investment may be through a joint venture,
acquisition, construction, or stock purchase of any operation in the refining,
petrochemical, oil industry equipment manufacture, drilling and exploration,
shipping, marketing and retail sales, or other ancillary "downstream"
activity.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  OPEC, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

2.  Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
    Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 
    Venezuela.

3.  Kuwait Petroleum Co., Kuwait Investment Co.

4.  Petroleos de Venezuela  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  "Downstream:" any petroleum industry activity which occurs after initial
    production of crude oil, or which supports such production.


</top>
 
<top>

<num> 090 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Data on Proven Reserves of Oil & Natural Gas
               Producers


<desc> Description:

Document will provide totals or specific data on changes to the proven reserve
figures for any oil or natural gas producer.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide totals or specific data on changes to the proven reserve
figures for any oil or natural gas producer.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must give specific data on totals, additions,
subtractions, recalculations, or adjustments to the official proven reserve
figures used by any national or corporate entity which produces oil or natural
gas.  The document should specify whether a change is due to such factors as
new investment in drilling activity or oil field installations, depletions or
losses, recalculations of existing figures, acquisition of other producers,
etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Proven reserve

2. Oil, natural gas


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  Proven Reserve: although not always used with precision or industry-wide
    agreement on precise parameters, and thus subject to change or
    redefinition, a "proven reserve" can be distinguished from a probable or
    potential reserve as one which is ready for production near-term.  Oil or
    natural gas which can be economically extracted using installed equipment
    employing current technology is considered to be a proven reserve.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 091 </num>


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: U.S. Army Acquisition of Advanced Weapons Systems


<desc> Description:

Document will identify acquisition by the U.S. Army of specified advanced
weapons systems.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify acquisition by the U.S. Army of specified advanced
weapons systems.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document will provide such specific information as contracts
concluded, payments made to contractors, or actual deliveries to the U.S. Army
of the following advanced weapons systems: Abrams Tank (M-1), Apache
Helicopter (AH-64), Patriot Missile, Blackhawk Helicopter, or Bradley Fighting
Vehicle.  Congressional discussions of such systems, DoD budget proposals,
RDT&E activities, overseas sales, component/spare parts/ancilliary
equipment/services acquisitions, and system modifications are not relevant.  In
other words, document must report actual or agreed-to deliveries to the U.S.
Army of core elements of their most modern weapons systems.


<con> Concept(s)

1. U.S. Army

2. Abrams Tank, M-1

3. Apache Helicopter, AH-64

4. Patriot Missile

5. Blackhawk Helicopter

6. Bradley Fighting Vehicle


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time: current and future

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 092 </num>


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: International Military Equipment Sales


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a proposed or recently concluded sale of military
equipment in the international arms market.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a proposed or recently concluded official sale
of military equipment between countries in the international arms
market.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document will identify a proposed or recently concluded sale
of military equipment, to include weapons platforms, munitions, spares,
ancilliary equipment, technology, and services.  The equipment and quantities
must be identified, and recent should be defined as within the previous 12
months, but the price and conditions of sale are optional information.  Any
international sale, including transfers between NATO members or equipment
being provided under military aid programs, is relevant.  However, political
discussions of international military equipment sales, such as debate of the
Iran-Contra Affair, discussion of the UN embargo against South Africa, or
Congressional expressions of hostility against equipment sales to Arab states,
unless linked to a specific transaction, are not relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  FMS, foreign military sales


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time: current
</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 093 </num>


<dom> Domain: Politics


<title> Topic: What Backing Does the National Rifle Association
               Have?


<desc> Description:

Document must describe or identify supporters of the National Rifle
Association (NRA), or its assets.

<smry> Summary:

Document must describe or identify members or supporters of the
National Rifle Association (NRA), or discuss its finances.

<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe or name individuals or organizations
who are members of the NRA, or who contribute money to it.  A document is also
relevant if it quantifies the NRA's financial assets or identifies any other
NRA holdings.

<con> Concept(s):

1. National Rifle Association, NRA

2. contributor, member, supporter

3. holdings, assets, finances


<fac> Factor(s): 

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 094 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-aided Crime


<desc> Description:

Document must identify a crime perpetrated with the aid of a computer.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify a criminal activity involving computers.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must describe an illegal activity which was carried
out with the aid of a computer, either used as a planning tool, such as in
target research; or used in the conduct of the crime, such as by illegally
gaining access to someone else's computer files.  A document is NOT relevant
if it merely mentions the illegal spread of a computer virus or worm.
However, a document WOULD be relevant if the computer virus/worm were used in
conjunction with another crime, such as extortion.
  

<con> Concept(s):

1. crime, fraud

2. illegal access, corporate spying, extortion


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 095 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-aided Crime Detection


<desc> Description:

Document must describe a computer application to crime solving.


<smry> Summary:

Document must describe an actual or theoretical computer application
used in crime solving.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe either an actual or a theoretical
computer application to detective work, by the police or by another law
enforcement organization.  A relevant document could include techniques such
as profiling criminals and their methods of operation, identifying finger
prints, spotting anomalies, etc.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1. police, detective, sleuth, enforcement agency

2. clue, records, fingerprints, methods


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 096 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-Aided Medical Diagnosis


<desc> Description:

Document must describe computer programs, or computerized equipment, which aid
in medical diagnosis.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify computer programs, or computerized equipment, which are
in operational use in medical diagnosis.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe actual computer software or hardware
which is in operational use for the purpose of diagnosing, or assisting in
diagnosing, patients' medical conditions.


<con> Concept(s):

1. diagnosis, scanning, testing

2. tomagraph, digital subtraction angiography, magnetic resonance scanners


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<num> 097 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Fiber Optics Applications
 

<desc> Description:

Document must identify instances of fiber optics technology actually in use.
 

<smry> Summary:

Document must identify instances of fiber optics technology actually in use
or contracted for.
 

<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe actual operational situations in
which fiber optics are being employed, or will be employed.  A document
describing future fiber optics use will be relevant only if contracts have
been signed concerning the future application.


<con> Concept(s):

1. fiber optic, light

2. telephone, LAN, television 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1. Fiber optics refers to technology in which information is passed via laser
   light transmitted through glass or plastic fibers.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 098 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Fiber Optics Equipment Manufacturers


<desc> Description:

Document must identify individuals or organizations which produce fiber optics
equipment.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify individuals or organizations which produce fiber optics
equipment or systems.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must identify by name either individuals or
companies which manufacture equipment or materials used in fiber optics
technology.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Fiber optics, lasers

2. cables, connectors, fibers


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1. Fiber optics refers to the technology by which information is passed via
   laser light transmitted through glass or plastic fibers.

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 099 </num> 


<dom> Domain:  International Politics


<title> Topic:  Iran-Contra Affair


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a development in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a development in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a development in the unfolding saga termed
the Iran-Contra Affair.  A development consists of an agent and an action. Of
interest are at least piecemeal disclosures of who did what in order to be
able to come up with a description and chronology of events so that a
determination can be made of who was behind the scheme.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Iran-Contra affair, controversy, scandal

2.  President Reagan, George Bush, Oliver North, John Poindexter, Richard
    Secord, Robert McFarlane, Albert Hakim, Manucher Ghorbanifar, Hashemi
    Rafsanjani, Alexander Haig, George Shultz, Caspar Weinberger, Don Regan,
    William Casey, Michael Ledeen, David Kimche, Fawn Hall, Edward de Garay,
    Robert Dutton, Adnan Khashoggi, Benjamin Weir, William Buckley, White
    House

3.  Iran, Nicaragua, Lebanon

4.  Tower Commission, John Tower, Tower report, Brent Scowcroft, Edmund Muskie

5.  independent counsel, Lawrence Walsh

6.  management style, hands-off management

7.  arms sales to Iran

8.  diversion of profits to Nicaraguan rebels, insurgents, Contras,   
arms-for-hostages, kickbacks, kickback scheme

9.  Swiss bank accounts, records

10. sharing U.S. intelligence secrets with Tehran

11. Israeli intermediaries, front companies
 
12. contributions to the Contras from Brunei, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<num> 100 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Controlling the Transfer of High Technology


<desc> Description:

Document will identify efforts by the non-communist, industrialized states to
regulate the transfer of high-tech goods or "dual-use" technologies to
undesirable nations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify efforts by the non-communist, industrialized states to
regulate the transfer of high-tech goods or "dual-use" technologies to
undesirable nations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify activities of the U.S. Departments of
Commerce, Defense, and State to set policy or regulate exports of strategic
goods and technologies, or it will report on similar activities by allied
nations, or it will discuss technology transfer policy issues and
determinations under consideration by the Paris-based COCOM.  Unless
explicitly related to policy issues or establishment of regulations aimed at
controlling transfers of high technology goods and technologies, such events
as investigations of alleged violations of COCOM rules or arms shipments in
violation of embargoes are not relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  technology transfer, export license, export controls, strategic goods, 
international trade security policy, high technology

2.  COCOM, Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, 
    Japan, U.S., NATO

3.  Toshiba Machine, Kongsberg Vaapenfabrik, C. Itoh


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  "dual-use" technology: a technology usable in both non-military and
    military products

</top>

<top>


<num> 101 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Design of the "Star Wars" Anti-missile Defense System


<desc> Description:

Document will provide information on the proposed configuration, components, 
and technology of the U.S.'s "star wars" anti-missile defense system. 


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide information on the proposed configuration, components, 
and technology of the U.S.'s "star wars" anti-missile defense system. 


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which aids description of the 
design and technology to be used in the anti-missile defense system advocated
by the Reagan administration, the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), also 
known as "star wars."  Any reported changes to original design, or any 
research results which might lead to changes of constituent technologies, 
are also relevant documents.  However, reports on political debate over the 
SDI, or arms control negotiations which might encompass the SDI, are NOT 
relevant to the science and technology focus of this topic, unless they 
provide specific information on design and technology.   


<con> Concept(s):

1. Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, star wars, peace shield

2. kinetic energy weapon, kinetic kill, directed energy weapon, laser, 
   particle beam, ERIS (exoatmospheric reentry-vehicle interceptor system), 
   phased-array radar, microwave

3. anti-satellite (ASAT) weapon, spaced-based technology, strategic defense 
   technologies


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</nat>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 102 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Laser Research Applicable to the U.S.'s Strategic Defense 
Initiative


<desc> Description:

Document will report on laser research related, or potentially related, to 
the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on laser research related, or potentially related, to 
the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on laser research which is 
either explicitly linked to the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI, 
also known as "star wars") or which has potential applicability to the 
development of SDI laser technology.  Potentially relevant research could be 
referred to as research into directed energy weapons, or high energy lasers, 
or, more generally, referred to as military laser research.  A relevant 
document could take many forms -- award of contract, report of research 
results, or abstract of a professional paper on lasers.  However, a document 
clearly focused on use of low-power lasers in consumer products, surgical 
instruments, or industrial cutting tools is NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, star wars, peace shield

2. laser, directed energy weapon, high energy weapon


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</nat>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 103 </num>


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Welfare Reform


<desc> Description:

Document will report those proposed or enacted changes to U.S. federal, 
state, or local welfare laws and regulations which are propounded as reforms.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report those proposed or enacted changes to U.S. federal, 
state, or local welfare laws and regulations which are propounded as reforms.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will reveal attempts by any U.S. jurisdiction to change 
the legal or regulatory context of existing welfare programs, or to add new 
programs, which are described or labeled as a reform.  For the purposes of 
this topic, a welfare program must revolve around a transfer payment for 
which the recipient had not previously made contributions, other than 
through general tax payments. Examples include General Assistance, Aid for 
Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), public housing, Medicaid, income 
subsidies (rent and fuel subsidies, earned income tax credit, food stamps, 
etc.), child care programs (day care subsidies, nutrition programs, Head 
Start, etc.), and vocational training programs.  NOT relevant are those 
programs which could be viewed as the payment of insurance benefits to those 
who had previously made contributions (either directly or indirectly through 
a family member or employer), such as Medicare, Social Security survivor's 
benefits, and unemployment insurance.  Also NOT relevant are those documents
which deal solely with the financing or administration of existing programs.


<con> Concept(s):

1. welfare recipient, public assistance, family assistance, welfare benefit, 
relief

2. welfare reform, welfare dependency, reform movement, workfare, homeless, 
welfare culture

3. General Assistance, Aid for Families with Dependent Children, AFDC, 
Medicaid, earned income tax credit, food stamps, Head Start, job training, 
public housing


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Welfare program: although the above distinction between a "pure" transfer 
payment program and a putative insurance program is debatable, the 
distinction is made to focus the data search on those programs which are 
clearly in the welfare category, as opposed to the wide variety of social 
programs supported by U.S. government entities.

</top>






<top>

<num> 104 </num>


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Catastrophic Health Insurance


<desc> Description:

Document will enumerate provisions of the U.S. Catastrophic Health Insurance 
Act of l988, or the political/legal fallout from that legislation.


<smry> Summary:

Document will enumerate provisions of the U.S. Catastrophic Health Insurance 
Act of l988, or the political/legal fallout from that legislation.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will detail the content of the U.S. medicare act of l988 
which extended catastrophic illness benefits to the elderly, with particular 
attention to the financing scheme which led to a firestorm of protest and a 
Congressional retreat, or a relevant document will detail the political/legal
consequences of the catastrophic health insurance imbroglio and subsequent 
efforts by Congress to provide similar coverages through a less-controversial
mechanism. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. Catastrophic Coverage Act of l988, Medicare Part B, Health Care Financing 
Administration

2. catastrophic-health program, catastrophic illness, catastrophic care, 
acute care, long-term nursing home care

3. American Association of Retired Persons, AARP, senior citizen, National 
Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 105 </num>


<dom> Domain: Finance 


<title> Topic: "Black Monday"


<desc> Description:

Document will state reasons why U.S. stock markets crashed on 19 October 1987
("Black Monday"), or report on attempts to guard against another such crash.


<smry> Summary:

Document will state reasons why U.S. stock markets crashed on 19 October 1987
("Black Monday"), or report on attempts to guard against another such crash.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain at least one reason why U.S. stock markets 
experienced a huge price drop on 19 October 1987, losses of equity so large 
that markets were said to have crashed (the Dow, for example, lost 508 points
on that one day alone); the date of the crash has become known as "Black 
Monday."  A preferable document would contain a detailed analysis of the 
crash. The best document would link analysis of events to actions taken or 
recommendations made by federal authorities or the stock markets to prevent 
future crashes.  NOT relevant are reports which simply reference, without 
analysis, "Black Monday," such as anniversary stories generated by the press 
around every October 19th.   


<con> Concept(s):

1. 19 October 1987, "Black Monday"

2. New York Stock Exchange, Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, 
National Association of Securities Dealers

3. Chicago Board of Trade, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission, CFTC

4. program trading, index arbitrage, futures market, portfolio insurance, 
specialists, margins, super DOT system

5. Brady Commission, circuit breaker


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<time> Time: any time after 19 October 1987 

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 106 </num>


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: U.S. Control of Insider Trading


<desc> Description:

Document will report proposed or enacted changes to U.S. laws and 
regulations designed to prevent insider trading.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report proposed or enacted changes to U.S. laws and 
regulations designed to prevent insider trading.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain information on proposed or enacted changes 
to U.S. laws and regulations, including state laws and stock market rules, 
which are aimed at increasing penalties or closing loopholes in existing 
institutional discouragements to insider trading.  NOT relevant are reports 
on specific insider trading cases, such as the prosecutions and settlements 
related to the Boesky - Milken - Drexel Burnham Lambert scandal, unless the 
report also contains specific information on legal or regulatory change. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider trading

2. securities law, bill, legislation, regulation, rule

3. Insider Trading Sanctions Act, Insider Trading and Securities Fraud 
Enforcement Act

4. Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, CFTC, National Association of Securities Dealers, NASD


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 107 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japanese Regulation of Insider Trading


<desc> Description:

Document will inform on Japan's regulation of insider trading.


<smry> Summary:

Document will inform on Japan's regulation of insider trading.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide data on Japanese laws, regulations, and/or 
practices which help the foreigner understand how Japan controls, or does 
not control, stock market practices which could be labeled as insider trading.


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider trading

2. Japan

3. Ministry of Finance, Securities and Exchange Council, Osaka Securities 
Exchange, Tokyo Stock Exchange

4. Securities and Exchange Law, Article 58, law, legislation, guidelines, 
self-regulation

5. Nikko Securities, Yamaichi Securities, Nomura Securities, Daiwa 
Securities, Big Four brokerage firms


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 108 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japanese Protectionist Measures


<desc> Description:

Document will report on Japanese policies or practices which help protect 
Japan's domestic market from foreign competition.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on Japanese policies or practices which help protect 
Japan's domestic market from foreign competition.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a Japanese law or regulation, a 
governmental policy or administrative procedure, a corporate custom, or a 
business practice which discourages, or even prevents, entry into the 
Japanese market by foreign goods and services.  A document which reports 
generally on market penetration difficulties but which does not identify a 
specific Japanese barrier to trade is NOT relevant. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. Japan

2. Ministry of International Trade and Industry, MITI, Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs

3. protectionism, protect

4. tariff, subsidy, quota, dumping, obstruction, retaliation

5. structural impediment, product standard

6. trade dispute, barrier, tension, imbalance, practice

7. market access, free trade, liberalize, reciprocity

8. Super 301, 301 clause


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>







<top>

<num> 109 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Find Innovative Companies


<desc> Description:

Document must refer to one of the following: OTC Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises,
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions Inc., MIPS Computer
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<smry> Summary:

Document must refer to one of the following: OTC Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises,
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions Inc., MIPS Computer
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must mention one of the following companies: 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission (OTC) Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises, 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions, MIPS Computer 
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Overseas Telecommunications Commission, OTC

2. Hi Tech Enterprises

3. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.

4. Integrated Solutions Inc.

5. MIPS Computer Systems Inc.

6. ASK Computer Systems Inc.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<num> 110 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics


<title> Topic:	Black Resistance Against the South African Government


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss efforts by the black majority in South Africa to 
overthrow domination by the white minority government.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss efforts by the black majority in South Africa to 
overthrow domination by the white minority government.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss any effort by blacks to force political 
change in South Africa.  The reported black challenge to apartheid may take 
any form -- military, political, or economic -- but of greatest interest 
would be information on reported activities by armed personnel linked to 
the African National Congress (ANC), either in South Africa or in bordering 
states.  


<con> Concept(s):

1.  African National Congress, ANC, Nelson Mandela, Oliver Tambo

2.  Chief Buthelezi, Inkatha, Zulu

3.  terrorist, detainee, subversive, communist

4.  Limpopo River, Angola, Botswana, Mozambique, Zambia

5.  apartheid, black township, homelands, group areas act, emergency 
regulations


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 111 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Relations 


<title> Topic:  Nuclear Proliferation


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss efforts by the United Nations or those nations currently
possessing nuclear weapons to control the proliferation of nuclear weapons
capabilities to the non-nuclear weapons states.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss efforts by the United Nations or those nations currently
possessing nuclear weapons to control the proliferation of nuclear weapons
capabilities to the non-nuclear weapons states.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on efforts by the UN's International Atomic
Energy Agency to monitor compliance with the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty,
or, report on efforts by the United States, Britain, France, USSR, India, or
China to control the transfer of technology, equipment, materials, or delivery
systems to nations suspected of nuclear weapons development programs, or, 
a relevant document will report any nuclear activities by Argentina, Brazil, 
Iraq, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan, or South Africa (all suspected 
proliferators). 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, international safeguards, 
Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty

2.  nuclear, atomic bomb, reprocessing, spent fuel, plutonium, enriched 
uranium, heavy water

3.  Department of Engery, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Nuclear Control
Institute

4.  United States, Britain, France, USSR, India, China

5.  Argentina, Brazil, Iraq, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan, South Africa


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 112 </num>


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic:  Funding Biotechnology


<desc> Description:

Document will provide financial data relative to answering the question, how
much money worldwide is being invested in the biotechnology arena?


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide financial data about worldwide investment
in the biotechnology arena?


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide financial data which assists in quantifying
worldwide investment in biotechnology.  Relevant data includes the following:
funds provided to government, academic, or corporate laboratories for
biotechnology research; data on the capitalization of start-up firms in the
biotechnology arena, e.g. stock sales, venture capital investments, etc.; 
profit and loss figures for biotechnology enterprises or the biotechnology 
divisions of established corporations, etc.  


<con> Concept(s):

1. biotechnology

2. biotechnology investment


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 113 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: New Space Satellite Applications


<desc> Description:

Document will report on non-traditional applications of space satellite
technology.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on non-traditional (innovative) applications of
space satellite technology.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss more recent or emerging applications of 
space satellite technology.  NOT relevant are such "traditional" or early 
satellite age usages as INTELSAT transmission of voice and data 
communications for telephone companies or program feeds for established 
television networks.  Also NOT relevant are such established uses of 
satellites as military communications, earth mineral resource mapping, and 
support of weather forecasting.  A few examples of newer applications are 
the building of private satellite networks for transfer of business data, 
facsimile transmission of newspapers to be printed in multiple locations, 
and direct broadcasting of TV signals.  The underlying purpose of this topic 
is to collect information on recent or emerging trends in the application of 
space satellite technology.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1. satellite, technology, use of space

2. satellite network, facsimile, direct broadcasting


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

INTELSAT: a 113-nation consortium with a near monopoly on international
satellite communications.

COMSAT:  the congressionally chartered U.S. satellite communications company
which holds 25% of INTELSAT's stock.

</top>





<top>

<num> 114 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Non-commercial Satellite Launches


<desc> Description:

Document will provide data on launches worldwide of non-commercial space
satellites.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide data on actual launches worldwide of
non-commercial space satellites.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which helps identify the 
purpose and capabilities of satellites launched anywhere in the world which 
might have non-commercial applications.  Accordingly, periodic launches of 
INTELSAT communications satellites are clearly NOT relevant.  On the other 
hand, data on launches of military communication or intelligence sensor 
satellites are definitely relevant.  Potentially useful data on any given 
launch would be press comment as to whether the satellite has a military, 
scientific, or intelligence purpose, type of launch vehicle employed, 
reported satellite configuration, launch trajectory and speed, projected 
orbit, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. satellite launch, military communications, intelligence satellite

2. launch vehicle, trajectory, orbit


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

INTELSAT:  a 113-nation consortium with a near monopoly on international
satellite communications.

COMSAT: the congressionally chartered U.S. satellite communications company
which holds 25% of INTELSAT's stock.

</top>





<top>


<num> 115 </num>


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Impact of the 1986 Immigration Law


<desc> Description:

Document will report specific consequence(s) of the U.S.'s Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report concrete example(s) of the impact of the U.S.'s
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide concrete example(s) of the impact of the 
U.S.'s Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (also known as the 
Simpson-Mazzoli Act).  Relevant examples are a foreign government's official 
complaints against the law, domestic legal and political attempts to delay 
enforcement or modify provisions of the act, imposition of fines on 
employers who hire illegal aliens, reports on undocumented workers taking 
advantage of the legalization program, enforcement actions by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, etc.  NOT relevant are such general reports as 
analyses of the law's potential impact, explication of the law's provisions, 
continuing political discourse on immigration issues, as well as immigration 
cases not related to the 1986 law. 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Simpson-Mazzoli Act

2.  immigration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, INS, Border Patrol

3.  illegal alien (or immigrant), undocumented worker, deportation, amnesty,
extended voluntary departure, EVD


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 116 </num>


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological


<title> Topic: Generic Drug Substitutions


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a generic drug which can be substituted for a brand 
name drug in the treatment of at least one medical condition.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a generic drug which can be substituted for a brand 
name drug in the treatment of at least one medical condition.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document must have all four of the following pieces of information
relative to potential generic drug substitutions: the name of a generic drug,
the brand name (or chemical term) of the drug for which it is an equivalent, 
the manufacturer or distributor of the generic, and the medical condition(s) 
treated by both the generic and the brand name drug.  Reports which contain 
multiple generic equivalencies are clearly relevant, since the purpose of 
the search is to build a cross index of potentially cheaper generics.  General
reports on the economics, legal actions, or politics of generic competitions 
are NOT relevant, unless they contain the four elements of data specified.  


<con> Concept(s):

1.  generic drug, generic equivalent 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 117 </num>


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Capacity of the U.S. Cellular Telephone Network


<desc> Description:

Document will provide at least one datum which helps build a description,
quantification, and evaluation of the capacity of the U.S. cellular telephone
network.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide at least one datum which helps build a description,
quantification, and evaluation of the capacity of the U.S. cellular telephone
network.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide data which helps answer the question, what 
is the capacity of the installed U.S. cellular telephone network?  Relevant
information can be cumulative over time, but it must be specific regarding 
such factors as area of operation for a given cellular company, number of 
units serviced by that company, type of equipment used, technology employed, 
and near-term plans for upgrades and expansions.  NOT relevant is such 
information as investments and capitalization, management changes, 
acquisitions and mergers (unless concrete data relative to capacity also is 
reported), equipment manufacture, paging services, etc.    


<con> Concept(s):

1.  cellular, cellular telephone (or phone)


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<time> Time: past, present, and near future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>


<num> 118 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: International Terrorists


<desc> Description:

Document will provide background information on international terrorist groups
or individuals, or detail the activities of such groups or individuals.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide background information on international terrorist groups
or individuals, or detail the activities of such groups or individuals.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report such information as the history, objectives, 
structure, areas of operation, identities of members and supporters, or 
activities of international terrorist groups and individuals.  Information 
must be sufficient to place the document into the international terrorism 
category, as defined below, so as to distinguish the report from those which 
detail activities by rebel groups pejoratively labeled as "terrorist" by a 
regime under attack.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.  

</top>





<top>

<num> 119 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Actions Against International Terrorists


<desc> Description:

Document will report activities by established political authorities against
international terrorists.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report activities by established government authorities against
international terrorists and their sponsors.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on military, political, economic, or legal 
actions taken against international terrorists, or states accused of 
sponsoring terrorism, by recognized governments worldwide.  The official 
action must be against groups or individuals (or their sponsors) who fit the 
international terrorist mold, as defined below, rather than be actions 
against opponents of a government who are labeled as "terrorist" for 
political or propaganda purposes.


<con> Concept(s):

1. terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.

</top>





<top>

<num> 120 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Econonomics 


<title> Topic: Economic Impact of International Terrorism


<desc> Description:

Document will report on actual or alleged private sector economic consequences
of international terrorism.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on actual or alleged private sector economic consequences
of international terrorism.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will address the issue of how to calculate the private
sector economic consequences of the activities of international terrorists.
Reported consequences may be such information as corporate claims that a 
fall off in business resulted from customer fears over international 
terrorism, actual destruction of private property through terrorist acts, 
investments not made because of concerns over a  terrorist presence in an 
area of potential investment, etc..   NOT relevant are costs attributable to 
government actions.    


<con> Concept(s):

1. terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.

</top>





<top>

<num> 121 </num>


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Death from Cancer


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the life and death of a prominent U.S. person from a
specific form of cancer.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss the life and death of a prominent U.S. person from a
specific form of cancer.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide obituary information on a prominent U.S. 
person who died of an identified type of cancer.  In addition to the 
individual's name and cancer, the report must provide sufficient biographical
information for a determination of why the life and contributions of the 
individual were worthy of some comment upon death. In other words, a one or 
two line obituary is NOT sufficient.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer

2. death, obituary


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time: current


</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 122 </num>


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: RDT&E of New Cancer Fighting Drugs 


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the research, development, testing, and evaluation
(RDT&E) of a new anti-cancer drug developed anywhere in the world.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the research, development, testing, and evaluation
(RDT&E) of a new anti-cancer drug developed anywhere in the world.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any phase in the worldwide process of
bringing new cancer fighting drugs to market, from conceptualization to
government marketing approval.  The laboratory or company responsible for the
drug project, the specific type of cancer(s) which the drug is designed to
counter, and the chemical/medical properties of the drug must be identified.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, leukemia

2. drug, chemotherapy


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 123 </num>


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Research into & Control of Carcinogens


<desc> Description:

Document will report on studies into linkages between environmental factors or
chemicals which might cause cancer, and/or it will report on governmental
actions to identify, control, or limit exposure to those factors or chemicals
which have been shown to be carcinogenic.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on studies into linkages between environmental factors or
chemicals which might cause cancer, and/or it will report on governmental
actions to identify, control, or limit exposure to those factors or chemicals
which have been shown to be carcinogenic.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on research into linkages between cancer and
environmental hazards and/or the efforts of governments to limit exposure of
their people to carcinogens.  The governmental action may be of any category,
e.g. entry into international agreements, enactment of domestic laws, issuance
of administrative regulations, support of carcinogen research, air and soil
sampling, launching of public education campaigns, etc.  


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, carcinogen

2. treaty, agreement, law, regulation, study, research, education, Super Fund


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 124 </num>


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Alternatives to Traditional Cancer Therapies


<desc> Description:

Document will report on innovative approaches to preventing or curing cancer.


<smry> Summary:

A relevant document will report on any attempt to experiment with or 
demonstrate the efficacy of any non-chemical, non-surgical, or 
non-radiological approach to preventing or curing cancer.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any attempt to experiment with or 
demonstrate the efficacy of any non-chemical, non-surgical, or 
non-radiological approach to preventing or curing cancer.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, cancer prevention, cancer cure

2. NOT chemotherapy, NOT surgery, NOT radiation


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 125 </num>


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Anti-smoking Actions by Government


<desc> Description:

Document will describe actions by public authorities to limit the human use of
tobacco.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe actions by public authorities to limit the human use of
tobacco.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide at least one example of actions proposed 
or taken by public authorities anywhere in the world to limit or discourage 
the human use of tobacco.  Limits may take any regulatory or legal form 
appropriate to that jurisdiction, to include sales controls, limits on 
advertisement, mandatory warning labels, and establishment of no-smoking 
zones.  Court findings against tobacco companies (if any), as well as 
publicly financed anti-smoking campaigns and education programs, are to be 
considered as relevant forms of discouragement.  In addition, public funding 
of medical research into tobacco use is relevant information.  However, 
private anti-smoking initiatives, such as creating no-smoking areas, are NOT 
relevant unless traceable in origin to government action.  Also NOT relevant 
are contradictory, pro-tobacco government actions, such as tobacco price 
support programs and export encouragements.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  tobacco

2.  smoking, anti-smoking


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 126 </num>


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Medical Ethics and Modern Technology


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss ethical issues attendant to contemporary advances in 
medical technology.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss ethical issues attendant to contemporary advances in 
medical technology.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on non-traditional medical ethics issues 
which have been created by recent (post WWII) advances in medical science 
and/or the efforts of the medical community to deal with such ethical issues.
Relevant reports include those on such issues as the decision process for 
selecting organ transplant recipients, whether to place or remove a patient 
from a life-support machine ("when to pull the plug"), whether or not to 
employ advanced techniques on defective newborns, and the use of fetal 
tissue and human cells in biomedical research.  NOT relevant are reports on 
such traditional issues as abortion, mercy killing, and assisted suicide.  
Also NOT relevant are reports on the long-established legal/ethical issue of 
the right to privacy, as it relates to such contemporary public health 
problems as mandatory testing and contact tracing for AIDS.


<con> Concept(s):

1. medical ethics

2. hospital ethicist, medical ethics counseling

3. triage, terminally ill, abortion, assisted suicide

4. fetal tissue, organ transplant, life support machine, artificial 
insemination 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>


<num> 127 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: U.S.-U.S.S.R. Arms Control Agreements


<desc> Description:

Document will report the terms of arms control agreements concluded, under 
negotiation, or proposed between the United States and the Soviet Union.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report the terms of arms control agreements concluded, under 
negotiation, or proposed between the United States and the Soviet Union.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document must provide specific information on U.S.-U.S.S.R. arms 
control agreements, such as the weapons covered, size of reduction, 
verification procedures, etc.  Debate in the U.S. Congress, or within Allied 
Nations or multilateral fora, is NOT relevant, unless such debates 
coincidentally provide new, concrete information on the terms of concluded, 
pending, or proposed arms control agreements. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. strategic arms limitation treaty, SALT, SALT II, START

2. intermediate range nuclear weapon, INF

3. medium-range nuclear missile, short-range nuclear weapon, nuclear testing,
 conventional arms

4. arms control, arms reduction, arms agreement, verification

5. Anti-ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty of 1972

6. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<nat> Nationality: U.S.S.R.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>


<num> 128 </num>


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Privatization of State Assets 
 

<desc> Description:  

Document discusses a current or future sale to the private sector, by a 
government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares of a 
business owned by the state.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses a current or future sale to the private sector, by a 
government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares of a 
business owned by the state.


<narr> Narrative:  

A relevant document will discuss a completed, ongoing, or  proposed sale to 
the private sector (e.g., offer to the public, or to a selected investor), 
by a government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares 
of a business owned by that government or government entity.  The business 
and the government or government entity must be identified.  A document 
which discusses privatization in general, privatization plans or a 
privatization program, but does not refer to a specific sale, is NOT relevant. 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  privatization effort, privatization plan, denationalization

2.  private sector

3.  sale, sell, offer

4.  stake, shares, stock, company


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time:  Current

<time> Time:  Future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>

<top>


<num> 129 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Soviet Spying on the U.S.


<desc> Description:

Document will report spying by the USSR within U.S. territory or against U.S. interests overseas.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report spying by the USSR within U.S. territory or against U.S. interests overseas.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss reported espionage by entities of the 
Soviet government - KGB, GRU, etc. - conducted within the territory of the 
United States of America, or against U.S. diplomatic or military facilities 
overseas.  Reported entrapment or involvement of U.S. citizens, residents, 
or employees in Soviet spying, be it overseas or within U.S. territory, is 
also relevant.  However, espionage cases involving states linked to the 
USSR - Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Cuba, etc. - are NOT relevant, unless 
linkage to Soviet intelligence can be demonstrated.


<con> Concept(s):

1. USSR, U.S.S.R., Soviet, KGB, GRU, diplomat

2. spy, agent, spying, espionage, intelligence

3. snoop, bug, compromise, penetrate

4. counterintelligence, FBI, CIA, Pentagon, State Department


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>


<num> 130 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Jewish Emigration and U.S.-USSR Relations


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the issue of Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union 
as it impacts on U.S.-Soviet relations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the issue of Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union 
as it impacts on U.S.-Soviet relations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on U.S. efforts to advance emigration 
freedom for Soviet Jews, USSR resistance to the permanent move of Jews to 
Israel or the U.S., and/or how the Jewish emigration issue affects 
U.S.-U.S.S.R. bilateral relations, as well as the relative positions of the 
two superpowers in the Middle East.


<con> Concept(s):

1. U.S., America, U.S.S.R., USSR, Soviet Union, Soviet, Israel, Middle East

2. Jew, Jewish

3. emigration, emigrate, emigre, refugee, exit visa

4. Jackson-Vanik Amendment

5. glasnost, refusenik

6. diplomatic relations, economic relations  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 131


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: McDonnell Douglas Contracts for Military Aircraft


<desc> Description:

Document will identify and quantify a contract awarded to McDonnell Douglas 
for production of military aircraft.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify and quantify a contract awarded to McDonnell Douglas 
or its subsidiary corporations
for production of military aircraft.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide specified data on contracts awarded to 
McDonnell Douglas for the production of military aircraft for any nation, 
any military service, or of any aircraft type (interceptor, fighter-bomber, 
helicopter, etc.).  The contract must be for completed airframes, NOT 
contracts for aircraft development, factory tooling, components, spare parts,
services, etc.  To be relevant, the document also must specify the number of 
aircraft to be delivered, the dollar size of the contract, and the aircraft 
type sought.


<con> Concept(s):

1. McDonnell Douglas

2. contract, award

3. military, aircraft, fighter, interceptor, helicopter, transport

4. FA-18, AV-8B, C-17, F-15, AH-64A, EF-18A


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 132 </num>


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: "Stealth" Aircraft 


<desc> Description:

Document will provide cost, technical, and/or performance data on U.S. 
"stealth" aircraft projects.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide cost, technical, and/or performance data on U.S. 
"stealth" aircraft projects.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain specific information on the design, 
assembly, and testing of "stealth" (radar-evading) fighters and bombers of 
the United States Air Force, and/or provide data indicative of the costs, 
characteristics, and performance of such aircraft.  Relevant information 
includes, but is not limited to, expenditures associated with stealth 
projects, technology reportedly used or to be used, locations associated 
with assembly or testing of the aircraft, information on performance 
(demonstrated or projected), and identification of contractors or 
subcontractors on stealth projects (excepting reports simply identifying the 
publicly known prime contractors for the stealth fighter and stealth bomber, 
Lockheed and Northrop, respectively).  Reports on flight tests or combat use 
of stealth aircraft are NOT relevant, unless technical or performance data 
are explicitly provided.


<con> Concept(s):

1. stealth, stealth fighter, stealth bomber, advanced technology bomber

2. radar evading, radar evasion

3. skunk works, black program, F-19


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 133 </num>


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Hubble Space Telescope


<desc> Description:

Document will describe some design feature of the Hubble Space Telescope.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe some design feature or capability of the Hubble
Space Telescope.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the instruments, components, 
controls, capabilities, or other technical features of the Hubble Space 
Telescope.  Reports on delays in launching, or the actual launch of the 
Hubble, are NOT relevant.  In addition, only initial reports which 
technically detail the telescope's flawed mirror, how the defect will impact 
the telescope's effectiveness, or how the flaw will be corrected, are 
relevant.  Further references to the defective mirror, particularly 
political or non-scientific discussion of the mistake (or the project 
generally), are NOT relevant.  Also, references to the Hubble Constant, or 
the scientist for whom both the telescope and the astronomical term were 
named, are NOT relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Hubble Space Telescope, HST, space telescope


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 134 </num>


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: The Human Genome Project


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the objectives, processes, and organization of the 
human genome project.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the objectives, processes, and organization of the 
human genome project.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on the purposes, strategies, technologies, 
funding, and/or management of the human genome project.  Although they may be
scientifically pertinent, reports on general biomedical, genetic, and cell 
chemistry research, as well as related technologies, are NOT relevant to 
this topic unless they are explicitly linked to the human genome project.


<con> Concept(s):

1. human genome, human genome initiative, human gene mapping

2. gene mapping, DNA sequencing

3. genetic marker, DNA segments


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Human Genome Project: a largely U.S. funded "big science" project whose 
initial purpose is to map the nucleic acid sequences within the more than 
50,000 genes carried on the 23 human chromosomes.  Described differently, 
the project "is to produce a database listing the exact sequence of three 
billion base pairs along a single strand of human genetic material."

</top>





<top>

<num> 135 </num>


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Possible Contributions of Gene Mapping to Medicine


<desc> Description:

Document will report on efforts to locate and describe genes linked to 
inherited human diseases and/or report on the potential medical 
contributions such information might yield.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on efforts to locate and describe genes linked to 
inherited human diseases and/or report on the potential medical 
contributions such information might yield.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any of the following: gene mapping 
research aimed at locating specific genes involved in those human diseases 
where genetic cause or predisposition have been implicated, attempts to 
describe the molecular structure and chemical defects of suspect genes (in 
either single gene or polygenic diseases), the development of diagnostic 
tests at the gene level, and research into possible treatments which might 
result from locating and analyzing genes involved in inherited human diseases.
Reports on laboratory techniques or research projects which may aid the 
general fields of genetics and molecular biology, but which do not directly 
link the procedure or project to the study or treatment of a human genetic 
disease, are NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. genetic disease, inherited disease, hereditary disease

2. gene mapping, DNA sequencing

3. gene therapy, gene test

4. chromosome analysis, DNA technology, genetic marker


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 136 </num>


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Diversification by Pacific Telesis


<desc> Description:

Document will report on attempts by Pacific Telesis to diversify beyond its 
basic business of providing local telephone service.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on attempts by Pacific Telesis to diversify beyond its 
basic business of providing local telephone service.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will give information on moves by Pacific Telesis to 
expand and diversify into information services, cellular radio, and other 
businesses outside its regulated activity of providing local telephone 
service in California and Nevada.  NOT relevant to diversification moves by 
Pacific Telesis is such information as developments in local telephone 
service, financial issues (telephone rates, stock prices, and earnings 
reports), legal actions, labor conflicts, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Pacific Telesis

2. diversification, diversify, new business, subsidiary, acquisition, 
non-telephone operations, consortium

3. NOT local telephone service; NOT upgrades to regional telephone system; 
NOT telephone rates, stock prices, or earnings; NOT legal or regulatory 
actions; NOT labor conflicts; NOT personnel actions.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Pacific Telesis: a San Francisco-based regional telephone operating company.
Pacific Telesis is one of the seven "baby bells" formed from the break-up of 
AT&T.  Along with Ameritech, Nynex, US West, Southwestern Bell Corp, Bell 
Atlantic Group, and Bell South Group, Pacific Telesis was given responsibility
for providing local telephone service in its assigned area, as well as 
afforded the opportunity of diversifying into a wide-range of other 
businesses, with some exceptions, such as the former Bell System's long 
distance service which was retained by AT&T.

</top>






<top>

<num> 137 </num>


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Expansion in the U.S. Theme Park Industry


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the building of a new or on the expansion/upgrade of 
an existing theme park by a U.S. corporation in the United States or overseas.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the building of a new or on the expansion/upgrade of 
an existing theme park by a U.S. corporation in the United States or overseas.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on plans by U.S. corporations to build a new 
theme park, to enlarge an existing theme or amusement park, or to add a new 
attraction to an existing park.  Reports on developments in overseas theme 
parks in which U.S. interests have a substantial equity or management 
position are also relevant.  However, reports on mergers and acquisitions 
which do not add to plant or capacity in the theme park industry are NOT 
relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. theme park, amusement park, entertainment facility

2. build, construct, develop, enlarge, expand, upgrade

3. Disney, Busch, Universal, Six Flags, MCA, Sea World

4. NOT sale, purchase, merger, or acquisition


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 138 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Iranian Support for Lebanese Hostage-takers


<desc> Description:

Document will give data linking Iran to groups in Lebanon which seize and 
hold Western hostages.


<smry> Summary:

Document will give explicit information linking Iran to groups in
Lebanon which seize and hold Western hostages.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide explicit information which supports (or 
counters) the allegation that elements in the Iranian government encourage, 
influence, financially support, and/or direct the activities of such 
Lebanese groups as Hezbollah in the taking and holding of U.S. and European 
hostages.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Iran, Tehran, Iranian Interior Ministry, Revolutionary Guard Corps, 
patron, sponsor, mentor

2. Ayatollah Khomeini, Ali Akbar Mohtashemi (AKA Mohtashami-Pur), Abdollah 
Nouri, Hashemi Rafsanjani, Mohsen Rafiq-Dust, Hosein Sheikholislam

3. Lebanon, Syria, Bekaa Valley

4. Hezbollah, Party of God, Special Security Apparatus, Revolutionary 
Justice Organization, Organization for the Oppressed on Earth (AKA Oppressed 
of the Earth), Amal

5. Immad Mughniyeh (AKA Imad Mugniyah), Sheik Fadlallah, Sheik Obeid, Abed 
Yunis, Mustafa Khorshid, Hussein Ghabris, Hussein Khalil, Hussein Mousawi, 
Abbas Musawi, Hamadi

6. hostage, captive, hostage-taker, terrorist

7. kidnap, seize, hostage-taking

8. negotiate, bargain, talk, ransom, release, threat, kill


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<num> 139 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Iran's Islamic Revolution - Domestic and Foreign Social 
Consequences


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the religious, legal, cultural, and social 
consequences of Iran's Islamic Revolution within Iran and abroad.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the religious, legal, cultural, and social 
consequences of Iran's Islamic Revolution within Iran and abroad.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which facilitates analysis of 
the non-political impact of Iran's Islamic Revolution on the people of Iran, 
as well as Muslims and others outside Iran.  Relevant data on the religious, 
legal, cultural, and social dimensions of the Islamic Revolution should help 
describe how Ayatollah Khomeini's overthrow of the Shah impacted, and 
continues to impact, the lives of people. NOT relevant are reports focused 
on the human and economic losses associated with the Iran-Iraq War.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Iran, Tehran, Qom, Ayatollah Khomeini

2. Islamic Revolution, Islamic Republic, Shiite, fundamentalism, Muslim, 
Moslem

3. women, chador, Islamic veil, headscarf

4. beard, village, hamlet

5. blasphemy, zealot, fanatic, repression, martyrdom, revolutionary guards

6. Salman Rushdie, Nazia Hassan, writer, artist, singer, television

7. NOT politics, NOT war, NOT elections, NOT international relations


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 140 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Political Impact of Islamic Fundamentalism


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the political impact of Islamic fundamentalism within any nation other than Iran.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the political impact of Islamic fundamentalism within any nation other than Iran.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the increase outside Iran of 
Islamic fundamentalism, among both Sunni and Shiite adherents, and how the 
strengthening of the Islamic fundamentalist movement has, or potentially can,
effect the structures, politics, and policies of national governments.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Islamic fundamentalism, Islamization, shari'a (shariah)

2. Muslim Brotherhood, Hamas, Islamic Salvation Front, Al-Nahdah, Muslim 
Mujahedin, Jama'at-e Islami, Mujahedin-e Khalq, Hezbollah (AKA Hizbullah), 
al-Takfir Wal-Hijrah, Moro Liberation Front

3. Hassan el-Turabi (AKA Hassan Turabi), Gulbeddin Hekmatyar, Shah Massoud, 
Mohammed Zia-ul-Haq (President Zia), Ayatollah Khoi, Safar Hawali, Muhammad 
Husain Fadlullah (AKA Sheik Fadlallah), Abbas al-Madani

4. Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, 
Sudan, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Philippines

5. NOT-Iran


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>


<num> 141 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japan's Handling of its Trade Surplus with the U.S.


<desc> Description:

Document will report on Japanese efforts to deal with U.S. complaints 
regarding Japan's surplus in bilateral trade.  


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on Japanese efforts to deal with U.S. complaints 
regarding Japan's surplus in bilateral trade.  


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will reveal Japanese government or government-inspired 
actions designed to reduce the gap or ameliorate frictions resulting from 
Japan's continuing surplus in bilateral trade with the U.S.  The report must 
identify concrete actions which are traceable to the Japanese government. 
NOT relevant would be promises or proposals.  Similarly, analyses of the 
U.S.-Japan trade relationship, trade negotiations, or political commentary 
thereon, are NOT relevant.  Also, such economic data as foreign exchange and 
interest rate movements, corporate initiatives, or stock and bond market 
changes are NOT relevant, unless such information is explicitly linked to 
Japanese government efforts to deal with the bilateral trade surplus.    


<con> Concept(s):

1. Japan, Japanese government, Ministry of International Trade and Industry, 
MITI

2. U.S., Department of Commerce, U.S. Trade Representative

3. trade surplus, deficit, gap, imbalance, dispute

4. free trade, managed trade, barriers to trade, structural impediments


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan and U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 142 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Impact of Government Regulated Grain Farming on International 
Relations


<desc> Description:

Document will show how and why national governments supervise and protect 
their own growers of grain and/or how these policies impact a nation's 
foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will show how or why national governments supervise and protect 
their own growers of grain or how these policies impact a nation's 
foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will demonstrate specifically how a government anywhere 
in the world protects domestic production of grains (such as corn, rice, and 
wheat), provide the rationale for such policies (if available), and/or 
demonstrate the linkage between such domestic agricultural policies and a 
nation`s foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<con> Concept(s):

1. export subsidies, export restitution, import quotas, farm-trade barriers

2. price supports, farm subsidies, agricultural supports

3. self-sufficiency, embargo, import dependence, high quality food supply, 
farm interests

4. grain, animal feed, corn, rice, wheat

5. foreign trade, trade negotiations, agricultural policy

6. EC's Common Agricultural Policy, Japan's Ministry of Agriculture, 
Forestry, and Fisheries, Zenchu, Liberal Democratic Party, LDP, U.S.'s 
Export Enchancement Program, food importing countries


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 143 </num>


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: Why Protect U.S. Farmers?


<desc> Description:

Document will contribute to an analysis of how and why, and at what cost, 
the U.S. federal government protects, supports, and controls U.S. farming.


<smry> Summary:

Document will contribute to an analysis of how or at what cost, 
the U.S. federal government protects, supports, and controls U.S. farming.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will describe actions taken by the U.S. government to 
protect U.S. farmers; or, reveal how farm price supports, export subsidies, 
import quotas, and other special farm policies impact the rural economy, as 
well as consumer costs and the federal budget; or, indicate a rationale used 
to justify farm support policies; or, show the relationship between 
agricultural policies and Congressional politics; or, suggest how national 
farm policies distort the "free" functioning of the agricultural sector of 
the national economy.


<con> Concept(s):

1. farm policy, farm exports, price supports, farm subsidy, deficiency 
payment, set-aside, supply controls, payment-in-kind, PIK, program crops, 
export subsidies, import quotas, crop base, production controls

2. Export Enhancement Program, EEP, Agriculture Adjustment Act, Targeted 
Export Assistance, TEA

3. rural districts, farm state, farming, farmers, agricultural sector

4. U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Department, USDA, U.S. Congress


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 144 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Politics


<title> Topic: Management Problems at the United Nations


<desc> Description:

Document will report on alleged corruption, incompetence, or inefficiency in 
the management of the United Nation's staff, activities, or specialized 
agencies.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on alleged corruption, incompetence, or inefficiency in 
the management of the United Nation's staff, activities, or specialized 
agencies.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on management effectiveness by 
the United Nations, its specialized agencies, or in its running of such 
activities as peace keeping and relief operations.  Allegations of management
failings, as well as retorts to such charges, are relevant.  However, 
charges of ideological bias or disputes over political and policy issues are 
NOT relevant.  The focus is management effectiveness, or the lack thereof.


<con> Concept(s):

1. United Nations, UN, Secretary General, United Nations Educational, 
Scientific, and Cultural Organization, UNESCO, Food and Agricultural 
Organization, FAO, World Health Organization, WHO, United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, peace keeping

2. mismanagement, corruption, incompetence, inefficiency, ineffectiveness, 
overhead, extravagance, administrative costs

3. secretariat, international civil servants, bureaucracy

4. reform, budget controls, accounting, financial analysis, retrenchment


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 145 </num>


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: Influence of the "Pro-Israel Lobby"


<desc> Description:

Document will describe how, and how effectively, the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" operates in the United States.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe attempts by the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" to influence United States policy.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify and/or discuss the effectiveness of an 
organization, individual, or mechanism employed by the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" to advance the interests of the State of Israel within the United 
States and its government.  Particularly useful would be a document which 
shows the lobby's impact on a specific policy decision by the U.S. government.


<con> Concept(s):

1. zionism, American Jews, Jewish community, U.S. Jewish leaders

2. aid to Israel, military assistance, campaign contribution

3. U.S. arms sales to Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, or Kuwait

4. U.S. supporters of Israel, pro-Israel congressman or senator, pro-Israel 
lobbyist, Jewish lobby 

5. American Jewish Congress, United Jewish Appeal, UJA, American Israel 
Public Affairs Committee, AIPAC, New Israel Fund, Committee for Economic 
Growth of Israel, Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs

6. Mossad, CIA, Israeli intelligence

7. dual loyalty, Jonathan Pollard, Pollard spy case, Rafael Eitan, Aviem 
Sella 


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S. and Israel

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 146 </num>


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Negotiating an End to the Nicaraguan Civil War


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the negotiating process leading to an end to the 
Nicaraguan civil war.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the negotiating process leading to an end to the 
Nicaraguan civil war.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on proposals for peace, 
negotiations on such proposals, terms of any agreements reached, problems in 
implementing agreements, or successful implementation of any agreement 
designed to facilitate an end to the civil war in Nicaragua.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Nicaragua, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala 

2. United States, Cuba, USSR, Soviet Union, Central America

3. Sandinista, Contra, Managua

4. peace talks, truce, cease-fire, elections, disarmament, nonlethal aid, 
turbista, La Prensa

5. Arias Plan, President Oscar Arias Sanchez, Oscar Arias

6. Daniel Ortega, Adolfo Calero, Aristides Sanchez, Violeta Chamorro, 
Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, Cardinal Obando

7. Fidel Castro, Jose Napolean Duarte, Alfredo Cristiani, Vinicio Cerezo, 
Jose Azcona


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 147 </num>


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Productivity Trends in the U.S. Economy


<desc> Description:

Document will provide productivity statistics on the U.S. economy.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide productivity statistics on the U.S. economy.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain some macroeconomic datum useful in charting 
long-term productivity trends in the U.S. economy.  Because useful in 
checking and calibrating aggregate figures, productivity statistics for 
specific sectors of the U.S. economy could be useful.  However, statistics 
for individual enterprises, because not available in sufficient numbers, are 
NOT relevant.  Also NOT relevant, unless containing confirmable productivity 
statistics, are reports on political discussions or press commentaries on 
the state of the U.S. economy.


<con> Concept(s):

1. productivity plus United States

2. productivity plus trend, data, statistics, ratios, reports

3. productivity plus gains, growth, improvement, drop, decline, change

4. gross national product, GNP, growth rate, standard of living

5. recession, slump  


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 148 </num>


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: Conflict in the Horn of Africa


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the Ethiopia-Somalia War, civil wars within those 
nations, and/or the movement of refugees fleeing armed conflicts between or 
within Ethiopia and Somalia.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on military and diplomatic development in the
Ethiopia-Somalia War or on the civil wars in Ethiopia or Somialia.
All refugee movements caused by these wars are also of interest.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the course of the 
Ethiopia-Somalia War (military and diplomatic developments), rebellions 
within Ethiopia, attempts to overthrow the Siad Barre regime in Somalia, 
and/or population movements within Ethiopia and Somalia, as well as refugee 
movements in and out of the neighboring states of Djibouti, Kenya, and Sudan.


<con> Concept(s):

1. war, conflict

2. civil war, insurgency, coup, famine, guerrilla, refugee

3. Horn of Africa, Ethiopia, Somalia

4. Eritrea, Tigre (Tigray), Wollo (Wello), Addis Ababa

5. Kenya, Sudan, Djibouti

6. Eritrean People's Liberation Front, EPLF, Oromo Liberation Front

7. Mengistu, Siad Barre


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 149 </num>


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Industrial Espionage


<desc> Description:

Document will report on industrial espionage.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on specific instances of industrial espionage,
including insider trading, or the actions of governments to prevent
the theft of economic secrets through legislation, regulation, or law
enforcement.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on alleged or demonstrated acts 
of industrial espionage committed by agencies of any nation, by any 
corporation seeking information on a competitor through apparently illegal 
acts, or by private individuals seeking to collect and sell propietary 
information. The espionage may be through any means -- electronic 
surveillance, bribery of employees, theft of documents, etc. -- whose 
purpose is to obtain technological or corporate secrets.  Also relevant are 
the actions of governments to prevent the theft of economic secrets through 
legislation, regulation, or law enforcement.  NOT relevant are such legally 
permissable actions as market research, hiring of consultants, and analysis 
of publicly available documents.  



<con> Concept(s):

1. industrial espionage, electronic surveillance, eavesdropping, electronic 
theft, inside information, market intelligence, industrial intelligence 
gathering, economic secrets, economic intelligence

2. industrial spy, disgruntled employee, electronic thief 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<num> 150 </num>


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: U.S. Political Campaign Financing


<desc> Description:

Document will report how U.S. politicians finance their election campaigns 
and/or moves to "reform" campaign finance practices.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report how U.S. politicians finance their election
campaigns (including honorariums) and/or moves to "reform" campaign
finance practices.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will show how U.S. politicians (federal, state, or 
local --  individually or as a group) pay for their election campaigns, the 
role played by "special interests" and contributors in the electoral process,
allegations or evidence of campaign contributions buying political favors, 
and/or proposals to limit the cost of campaigns or "reform" electoral 
finance practices.


<con> Concept(s):

1. campaign finance, campaign contribution, fund raising, political 
donation, honorarium, mother's milk of politics

2. campaign finance reform, public financing, ethics law

3. special interest, rich contributor, fat cat, lobbyist, political action 
committee, PAC

4. access-buying, political favor, electoral corruption


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






